UT 1
AR Wang X/4, 2026, PATTERN RECOGN, V173, DOI 10.1016/j.patcog.2025.112928
TI LLM-informed global-local contextualization for zero-shot food detection
AU Wang X/4; Min W; Sheng G; Song J; Yang Y/6; Yao T; Jiang S
TC 1
SO PATTERN RECOGN
PY 2026
AB zero shot detection , the ability to detect novel objects without training
   samples , exhibits immense potential in an ever changing world ,
   particularly in scenarios requiring the identification of emerging
   categories . however , effectively applying zsd to fine grained domains ,
   characterized by high inter class similarity and notable intra class
   diversity , remains a significant challenge . this is particularly
   pronounced in the food domain , where the intricate nature of food
   attributes notably the pervasive visual ambiguity among related culinary
   categories and the extensive spectrum of appearances within each food
   category severely constrains the performance of existing methods . to
   address these specific challenges in the food domain , we introduce zero
   shot food detection with semantic space and feature fusion ( zesf ) , a
   novel framework tailored for zero shot food detection . zesf integrates two
   key modules : ( 1 ) multi scale context integration module ( mscim ) that
   employs dilated convolutions for hierarchical feature extraction and
   adaptive multi scale fusion to capture subtle , fine grained visual
   distinctions . and ( 2 ) contextual text feature enhancement module ( ctfem
   ) that leverages large language models to generate semantically rich textual
   embeddings , encompassing both global attributes and discriminative local
   descriptors . critically , a cross modal alignment further harmonizes visual
   and textual features . comprehensive evaluations on the uec food 256 and
   food objects with attributes ( fowa ) datasets affirm zesf s superiority ,
   achieving significant improvements in the harmonic mean for the generalized
   zsd setting . crucially , we further validate the framework s generalization
   capability on the ms coco and pascal voc benchmarks , where it again
   outperforms strong baselines . the source code will be publicly available
   upon publication
DE fine grained features; food computing; zero-shot detection; zero-shot
   learning
ID feature extraction; object detection; sampling; contextualization; fine
   grained; fine grained feature; food computing; food detection; global-local;
   inter class; shot detection; training sample; zero-shot detection; semantics

---

UT 2
AR Zhang R, 2025, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM, P12659, DOI
   10.1145/3746027.3758203
TI RecipeGen: A Step-Aligned Multimodal Benchmark for Real-World Recipe
   Generation
AU Zhang R; Gao J/2; Wen B; Xie H; Zhang C/4; Shuai H-H; Cheng W-H
TC 0
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2025
AB creating recipe images is a key challenge in food computing , with
   applications in culinary education and multimodal recipe assistants .
   however , existing datasets lack fine grained alignment between recipe goals
   , step wise instructions , and visual content . we present recipegen , the
   first large scale , real world benchmark for recipe based text to image (
   t2i ) , image to video ( i2v ) , and text to video ( t2v ) generation .
   recipegen contains 26,435 recipes , 196,724 images , and 4,491 videos ,
   covering diverse ingredients , cooking procedures , styles , and dish types
   . we further propose domain specific evaluation metrics to assess ingredient
   fidelity and interaction modeling , benchmark representative t2i , i2v , and
   t2v models , and provide insights for future recipe generation models .
   project page is available at 2025 acm .
DE food computing; recipe image generation; recipe video generation
ID cooking; education computing; food chemistry; fine grained; food computing;
   image generations; multi-modal; multi-modal benchmark; real-world; recipe
   image generation; recipe video generation; video generation; visual content;
   food ingredients

---

UT 3
AR Tomich TP, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su15086556
TI Why Do We Need Food Systems Informatics?  Introduction to This Special
   Collection on Smart and Connected Regional Food Systems
AU Tomich TP; Hoy C; Dimock MR; Hollander AD; Huber PR; Hyder A; Lange MC/1;
   Riggle CM; Roberts MT; Quinn JF
TC 8
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB public interest in where food comes from and how it is produced , processed
   , and distributed has increased over the last few decades , with even
   greater focus emerging during the covid 19 pandemic . mounting evidence and
   experience point to disturbing weaknesses in our food systems abilities to
   support human livelihoods and wellbeing , and alarming long term trends
   regarding both the environmental footprint of food systems and mounting
   vulnerabilities to shocks and stressors . how can we tackle the ' wicked
   problems ' embedded in a food system ? more specifically , how can
   convergent research programs be designed and resulting knowledge implemented
   to increase inclusion , sustainability , and resilience within these complex
   systems , support widespread contributions to and acceptance of solutions to
   these challenges , and provide concrete benchmarks to measure progress and
   understand tradeoffs among strategies along multiple dimensions ? this
   article introduces and defines food systems informatics ( fsi ) as a tool to
   enhance equity , sustainability , and resilience of food systems through
   collaborative , user driven interaction , negotiation , experimentation ,
   and innovation within food systems . specific benefits we foresee in further
   development of fsi platforms include the creation of capacity enabling
   verifiable claims of sustainability , food safety , and human health
   benefits relevant to particular locations and products . the creation of
   better incentives for the adoption of more sustainable land use practices
   and for the creation of more diverse agro ecosystems . the wide spread use
   of improved and verifiable metrics of sustainability , resilience , and
   health benefits . and improved human health through better diets
DE assessment workflow; democratization; food justice; informatics; internet of
   food ( iof ); knowledge graph; ontology; resilience; semantic web of food (
   swof ); sustainability
ID covid-19; democratization; food safety; informatics; knowledge;
   sustainability

---

UT 4
AR Han S, 2022, HELIYON, V8, DOI 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e10998
TI Analysis of the impacts of social class and lifestyle on consumption of
   organic foods in South Korea
AU Han S; Lee Y
TC 28
SO HELIYON
PY 2022
AB the purpose of this study is to analyze the impact of social class and
   lifestyle on the consumption of organic foods in south korea . consumer
   behavior regarding organic foods is influenced by lifestyle , as well as
   income level and education . this study provides a new perspective on the
   socio economic structure of organic food consumption patterns in urban areas
   by extracting information from big data . the organic food consumption
   patterns are then analyzed through visualization of the geographical
   distribution of organic food stores . in addition , this study estimates the
   effects of social class and lifestyle variables on the consumption of
   organic foods based on survey data . this study finds that social class
   characteristics are factors that influence the consumption of organic foods
   . however , individual lifestyle plays a more important role in actual
   buying behavior
DE data science; eco-friendly food consumption; lifestyle; organic foods;
   social class; south korea

---

UT 5
AR Elkady G, 2024, ADV TECHNOL REALIZ SUSTAIN DEV GOALS 5G AI BIG DATA
   BLOCKCHAIN IND 40 APPL, P204, DOI 10.2174/9789815256680124010016
TI A critical investigation into the impact of big data in the food supply
   chain for realizing sustainable development goals in emerging economies
AU Elkady G; Sayed A; Mukherjee R; Lavanya D; Banerjee D; Aarif M
TC 5
SO ADV TECHNOL REALIZ SUSTAIN DEV GOALS 5G AI BIG DATA BLOCKCHAIN IND 40 APPL
PY 2024
AB in light of the present circumstances , corporate executives , government
   officials , and academics may now place a higher priority on the collection
   and analysis of crucial data as a potent instrument for solving the issues
   of managing the contemporary food supply chain . as food and beverage ( f
   and b ) companies place a greater emphasis on collecting , processing , and
   analyzing relevant data from a variety of sources throughout their
   respective food systems , data management has become an invaluable resource
   in modern food supply chains ( fscs ) . this is because modern fscs are
   designed to be more efficient than traditional supply chains . in this
   context , the phrase ' big data ' ( bd ) has only very recently begun to be
   used to refer to huge quantities of heterogeneous and geographically
   dispersed data assets that have fast rates of change , a wide variety of
   sizes , and high volumes of information . recent research has stated that
   implementing bd in fscs might result in a yearly gain in value that ranges
   from usd 120 billion to usd 150 billion . the current study is focused on
   analyzing the impact of big data in the food supply chain for realizing
   sustainable development goals in emerging economies . the researcher intends
   to collect data from primary and secondary sources . this paper focuses on
   understanding the conceptual framework that incorporates the relationship
   between fsc performance and bd applications
DE big data application; food supply chain; machine learning; neural network;
   sustainable development goals

---

UT 6
AR Puglisi D, 2025, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V1497 LNEE, P399, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-08271-8_63
TI Integration of Machine Learning for Next Generation Gas Sensor Technology
AU Puglisi D; Shtepliuk I; Eriksson J
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2025
AB today s challenges and demands for advanced and economically viable gas
   sensor systems necessitate the development of innovative solutions that can
   achieve not merely incremental improvements of existing technology , but
   rather a true paradigm shift in the current state of the art . here , we
   demonstrate that the integration of chemical gas sensors with machine
   learning ( ml ) techniques has reached a level of maturity that can
   significantly accelerate innovation and broaden their application across a
   variety of real world scenarios . we present three different case studies
   that illustrate the application of ml enhanced electronic nose ( e nose )
   technology in the key areas of food quality control , forensic analytics ,
   and early cancer diagnostics . we trained all available machine learning
   models in matlab s classification learner to select the best performing
   model , and used custom matlab code for a more thorough analysis of the
   chosen model . performance metrics such as validation and test accuracy ,
   precision , sensitivity , and specificity were used to evaluate the
   effectiveness of the models for binary classification tasks . our results
   demonstrate that the optimizable ensemble model , implemented using gentle
   adaptive boosting , outperformed all other models across all performance
   metrics . in all cases , our classification model achieved remarkable
   performance between 95 % and 98 % accuracy , sensitivity , and specificity ,
   demonstrating the potential of ml enhanced e nose technology as a versatile
   and reliable analytical tool
DE cancer diagnostics; electronic nose; food quality control; forensic
   analytics; machine learning
ID advanced analytics; diagnosis; diseases; e-learning; integration;
   intelligent computing; intelligent systems; learning systems; machine
   learning; matlab; quality control; sensory aids; cancer diagnostics;
   economically viable; food quality controls; forensic analytic; gas sensor
   systems; gas sensor technology; innovative solutions; machine learning;
   performance metrices; sensitivity and specificity; electronic nose

---

UT 7
AR Gilal NU/1, 2024, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V83, P32041, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-023-16513-4
TI Evaluating machine learning technologies for food computing from a data set
   perspective
AU Gilal NU/1; Al-Thelaya K; Al-Saeed JK; Abdallah M; Schneider J/1; She J/1;
   Awan JH; Agus M
TC 19
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2024
AB food plays an important role in our lives that goes beyond mere sustenance .
   food affects behavior , mood , and social life . it has recently become an
   important focus of multimedia and social media applications . the rapid
   increase of available image data and the fast evolution of artificial
   intelligence , paired with a raised awareness of people s nutritional habits
   , have recently led to an emerging field attracting significant attention ,
   called food computing , aimed at performing automatic food analysis . food
   computing benefits from technologies based on modern machine learning
   techniques , including deep learning , deep convolutional neural networks ,
   and transfer learning . these technologies are broadly used to address
   emerging problems and challenges in food related topics , such as food
   recognition , classification , detection , estimation of calories and food
   quality , dietary assessment , food recommendation , etc . however , the
   specific characteristics of food image data , like visual heterogeneity ,
   make the food classification task particularly challenging . to give an
   overview of the state of the art in the field , we surveyed the most recent
   machine learning and deep learning technologies used for food classification
   with a particular focus on data aspects . we collected and reviewed more
   than 100 papers related to the usage of machine learning and deep learning
   for food computing tasks . we analyze their performance on publicly
   available state of art food data sets and their potential for usage in
   multimedia food related applications for various needs ( communication ,
   leisure , tourism , blogging , reverse engineering , etc . ) . in this paper
   , we perform an extensive review and categorization of available data sets :
   to this end , we developed and released an open web resource in which the
   most recent existing food data sets are collected and mapped to the
   corresponding geographical regions . although artificial intelligence
   methods can be considered mature enough to be used in basic food
   classification tasks , our analysis of the state of the art reveals that
   challenges related to the application of this technology need to be
   addressed . these challenges include , among others : poor representation of
   regional gastronomy , incorporation of adaptive learning schemes , and
   reverse engineering for automatic food creation and replication
DE applications; caloric estimation; deep learning; food classification; food
   computing; food data sets; food recognition; machine learning
ID convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; engineering education;
   geographical regions; learning systems; nutrition; transfer learning;
   caloric estimation; classification tasks; dataset; deep learning; food
   classification; food computing; food dataset; food recognition; image data;
   machine learning; classification ( of information )

---

UT 8
AR Al Akasheh M, 2022, INT CONF SOC NETWORKS ANAL MANAG SECUR SNAMS, DOI
   10.1109/SNAMS58071.2022.10062613
TI A Predictive Data Analytics Methodology for Online Food Delivery
AU Al Akasheh M; Eleyan N; Ertek G
TC 7
SO INT CONF SOC NETWORKS ANAL MANAG SECUR SNAMS
PY 2022
AB online food delivery ( ofd ) has become a popular and profitable e business
   category due to the rising demand for online food delivery . people are
   increasingly ordering food online , especially in urban areas and on college
   campuses . using data from online food delivery services , one can analyze
   and predict the values of key performance indicators ( kpis ) . in the study
   presented in this paper , we developed a systematic methodology to analyze
   and predict such kpis using various classification and regression algorithms
   . we found that , for the case study we analyzed , random forest ( rf )
   consistently ranked as the best algorithm for regression and classification
   in predicting most of the kpis . the methodology we introduce and illustrate
   in the paper can be adapted and extended to similar problems to reveal
   potential operational issues and identify the possible root causes of such
   problems
DE data analytics; data science pipeline; food delivery services; machine
   learning; online food delivery
ID benchmarking; e-learning; machine learning; predictive analytics; random
   forests; data analytics; data science pipeline; delivery service; ebusiness;
   food delivery; food delivery service; key performance indicators; machine
   learning; online food delivery; data analytics

---

UT 9
AR Jenkins EL, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su151813788
TI Exploring Food Waste Conversations on Social Media: A Sentiment, Emotion,
   and Topic Analysis of Twitter Data
AU Jenkins EL; Lukose D; Brennan L; Molenaar A; McCaffrey TA
TC 12
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB food waste is a complex issue requiring novel approaches to understand and
   identify areas that could be leveraged for food waste reduction . data
   science techniques such as sentiment analysis , emotion analysis , and topic
   modeling could be used to explore big picture themes of food waste
   discussions . this paper aimed to examine food waste discussions on twitter
   and identify priority areas for future food waste communication campaigns
   and interventions . australian tweets containing food waste related search
   terms were extracted from the twitter application programming interface from
   20192021 and analyzed using sentiment and emotion engines . topic modeling
   was conducted using latent dirichlet allocation . engagement was calculated
   as the sum of likes , retweets , replies , and quotes . there were 39,449
   tweets collected over three years . tweets were mostly negative in sentiment
   and angry in emotion . the topic model identified 13 key topics such as
   eating to save food waste , morals , economics , and packaging . engagement
   was higher for tweets with polarizing sentiments and negative emotions .
   overall , our interdisciplinary analysis highlighted the negative discourse
   surrounding food waste discussions and identified priority areas for food
   waste communication . data science techniques should be used in the future
   to monitor public perceptions and understand priority areas for food waste
   reduction
DE emotion analysis; food waste; natural language processing; sentiment
   analysis; social media; topic modeling; twitter
ID exploration; food waste; language; numerical model; perception; social media

---

UT 10
AR Luo J, 2021, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V42, P278, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20200408-095
TI Research and Analysis of Food Big Data Technology Based on Bibliometrics;
   [基于文献计量学的食品大数据技术研究分析]
AU Luo J; Lu B
TC 6
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2021
AB food big data technology is one of the research hotspots in the field of
   food science and engineering , which has great potential in many fields like
   food safety management , food intelligent manufacturing , and dietary
   nutrition and health . based on the papers collected from the web of science
   core collection database and the patents collected from the derwent
   innovations index database , this paper presents a comprehensive
   bibliometric analysis of the current status , hotspots and future directions
   of research on food big data technology , as well as the comprehensive
   academic influence of and cooperative relationship among different countries
   . the results showed that remarkable achievements have been made in the
   application of food big data technology in the field of food safety
   management , which has provided a strong boost for full chain food safety
   information monitoring , risk early warning , quality traceability , and so
   on . the application of the technology is faced with great difficulties and
   obstacles in the field of intelligent food manufacturing , but it shows
   great potential in 3d printed food research . the application in the field
   of dietary nutrition and health has slowly progressed and is currently still
   at a low level and far away from the realization of intelligent nutrition
   management and health intervention . while chinese researchers have
   published a large number of papers concerning food big data technology ,
   china still lags behind developed european and american countries in
   academic influence and cooperative relationship network . therefore , it is
   urgent for the country to strengthen efforts to independently develop key
   technologies , as well as domestic and international cooperation and
   exchanges , so as to lay the foundation for the digital great leap forward
   development of china s food industry . 2021 , china food publishing company
   . all right reserved .
DE bibliometrics; food big data; food safety; intelligent manufacturing;
   nutrition and health
ID 3d printers; big data; food safety; industrial research; international
   cooperation; nutrition; safety engineering; technology transfer;
   bibliometric analysis; cooperative relationships; food manufacturing; food
   safety management; intelligent manufacturing; quality traceabilitys;
   research and analysis; risk early warning; intelligent well technology

---

UT 11
AR Hazarika I, 2025, IEEE INTEGR STEM EDUC CONF ISEC, DOI
   10.1109/ISEC64801.2025.11460353
TI 'Impact of Consumer Analytics and AI on Inventory Management in UAE with
   reference to UN SDG 12: Sustainable Consumption and Production patterns" and
   SDG 2 Zero Hunger in UAE"
AU Hazarika I
TC 0
SO IEEE INTEGR STEM EDUC CONF ISEC
PY 2025
AB food waste is a major problem across the globe and in uae , with 38 % of
   food prepared , is wasted at a cost of 6 billion aed . the topic under study
   deals with reduction in food waste which is aligned with uae s national
   agenda as the country has announced a nationwide action plan to reduce food
   waste by 50 percent by the last month of 2030 . the current research is
   based on two aspects : mechanisms to control food waste and determining the
   optimum order quantity to achieve un sustainable development goal ( sdg ) 12
   for sustainable consumption and production pattern . the study has analyzed
   the trend and treatment of domestic waste in the emirate of dubai and final
   disposal and recovery of food waste . the study has identified a solution ,
   driven by consumer analytics to reduce food waste which is a customized ai
   generated tablet that can store information such as expiry dates , quality ,
   and quantity of food . the ai system suggests recipes stating the exact
   quantity based on items that are nearing their expiration dates . the ai
   tablet can help households or restaurants track and reduce the amount of
   food waste
DE economic order quantity; environment; food waste; optimum; sustainability
ID inventory control; waste disposal; % reductions; consumption patterns;
   economic ordering quantity; environment; food waste; inventory management;
   optimum; production patterns; sustainable consumption; sustainable
   production; sustainable development

---

UT 12
AR Soti P, 2025, GENER AI FOOD SYST PREDICT DEMAND SMART SUPPLY CHAINS SUSTAIN
   SERV FUTUR, P23, DOI 10.4018/979-8-3373-5182-7.ch003
TI Harnessing AI for predictive insights: Unveiling the future of food
   consumption trends
AU Soti P; Taneja S; Singh BPS; Johri A
TC 0
SO GENER AI FOOD SYST PREDICT DEMAND SMART SUPPLY CHAINS SUSTAIN SERV FUTUR
PY 2025
AB this chapter analyzes shifting and ai s role in the food industry by
   outlining its opportunities and discussing the challenges . matters of
   primary concern include overcoming challenges that come with exercising
   control over regulatory processes , including data management , as well as
   utilizing ai to realize further potential across better produce and food
   sustainability , health nutrition interface , and echelon supply chains .
   that is why artificial intelligence , combined with rising technologies such
   as blockchain , the internet of things , and big data , enables improved
   traceability , food safety , and sustainability . silos and leveraging
   artificial intelligence to unlock new potentials in sustainable food
   production , personalized nutrition , and advanced supply chain optimization
   . integrating artificial intelligence with emerging technologies like
   blockchain , the internet of things , and big data analytics enables
   enhanced traceability , improved food safety , and operational efficiencies
   , driving sustainable practices
ID advanced analytics; artificial intelligence; big data; chains; food
   industry; food safety; food supply; information management; internet of
   things; nutrition; blockchain; data analytics; emerging technologies; food
   consumption; food industries; food production; food safety; operational
   efficiencies; regulatory process; supply chain optimization; supply chains

---

UT 13
AR Rejeb A, 2021, J DATA MANAG, V3, P167, DOI 10.1007/s42488-021-00045-3
TI Big data for sustainable agri‐food supply chains: a review and future
   research perspectives
AU Rejeb A; Rejeb K; Zailani S
TC 63
SO J DATA MANAG
PY 2021
AB research on agri food supply chains ( afscs ) has attracted significant
   attention in recent years due to the challenges associated with sustainably
   feeding the global population . the purpose of this study is to review the
   potentials of big data for sustainable afscs . one hundred twenty eight (
   128 ) journal articles were selected to identify how big data can contribute
   to the sustainable development of afscs . as part of our focus , a framework
   was developed based on the conceptualization of afscs in the extant
   literature to analyze big data research in the context of afscs and to
   provide insights into the potentials of the technology for agri food
   businesses . the findings of the review indicate that there is a noticeable
   growth in the number of studies addressing the applications of big data for
   afscs . the potentials of big data for afsc sustainability were synthesized
   in a summary framework , highlighting the primary resources and activities
   that are ready for improvement with big data . these include soil , water ,
   crop and plant management , animal management , waste management and
   traceability management . the challenges of big data integration in afscs ,
   the study s implications , contributions , and the future research
   directions are highlighted in detail
DE agri-food supply chain; big data; environment; soil; sustainability; water

---

UT 14
AR Shankar S, 2025, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V396 SIST, P173, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-8096-9_14
TI Big Data Analytics for Food Delivery App Using Unstructured Data from Social
   Media
AU Shankar S; Kalra K; Vigneswara Illavarasan P
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB the indian online food ordering and delivery industry is still mostly
   unorganized with many new small players coming out every now and then .
   social media presence of these online food ordering companies has witnessed
   an exponential increase in the growth of user generated data . this data is
   of immense usefulness for the business leaders to draw conclusions about the
   recent trends and customer needs . it is imperative to tap into this social
   media management to increase the growth opportunities for these companies .
   this study aims to bridge this gap by analyzing the popular sentiments that
   the people have toward the food delivery company in india
DE data analytics; food delivery; sentiment analysis; servqual; social media
   analytics
ID data analytics; exponential increase; food delivery; media presences;
   sentiment analysis; servqual; social media; social media analytics;
   unstructured data; user-generated

---

UT 15
AR Ravichandran R, 2026, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, DOI 10.1007/s13197-026-06728-2
TI Artificial intelligence in food technology and processing: a review
AU Ravichandran R
TC 0
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB the food industry faces numerous challenges , including ensuring food safety
   , managing supply chain disruptions , meeting changing consumer demands ,
   addressing climate change impacts , and reducing food waste . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) offers innovative solutions to these issues through
   applications like predictive analytics , real time quality control , and
   intelligent supply chain management . this review explores the role of ai in
   optimizing food production processes , enhancing food safety , and
   personalizing dietary recommendations , while addressing ethical
   considerations and challenges in implementation . by analyzing recent
   literature and case studies , this study highlights ai s potential to
   revolutionize food technology and processing , contributing to a more
   resilient and sustainable food system . association of food scientists and
   technologists ( india ) 2026 .
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision in food processing; food safety;
   intelligent food packaging; personalized nutrition; predictive analytics in
   food systems; quality control; supply chain; sustainable food production
ID accident prevention; food processing; food safety; food supply; food waste;
   nutrition; predictive analytics; processed foods; quality control; reviews;
   computer vision in food processing; food industries; food packaging; food
   production; food system; food safety; intelligent food packaging;
   personalized nutrition; predictive analytic in food system; sustainable food
   production; artificial intelligence; supply chains

---

UT 16
AR Alahmari SS, 2025, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V14, DOI
   10.3390/electronics14214316
TI Zero-Shot SAM for Food Image Segmentation
AU Alahmari SS; Gardner MR; Salem T
TC 0
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2025
AB recent advances in foundation models have enabled strong zero shot
   performance across vision tasks , yet their effectiveness for fine grained
   domains such as food image segmentation remains underexplored . this study
   investigates the zero shot capabilities of the segment anything model ( sam
   ) for segmenting food images . we evaluate two prompting strategies bounding
   boxes and coordinate points and compare sam s results against established
   deep learning baselines , you net and deeplabv3+ , both trained on the
   foodbin 17k dataset with pixel wise binary annotations . using bounding box
   prompts , zero shot sam achieved a dice coefficient of 0.790 , closely
   matching you net ( 0.759 ) , while deeplabv3+ attained 0.918. coordinate
   based prompting yielded comparable results , with the optimal configuration
   ( 75 coordinate points ) also reaching a dice coefficient of 0.790. these
   results highlight sam s strong potential for generalizing to novel visual
   categories without task specific retraining . this study further provides
   insights into how prompt type influences segmentation quality , offering
   practical guidance for applying sam in food related and other fine grained
   segmentation applications
DE deep learning; food computing; foundation models; sam
ID bounding-box; deep learning; dice coefficient; fine grained; food computing;
   food image; foundation models; images segmentations; performance; segment
   anything model; deep learning; image segmentation

---

UT 17
AR Cheng H/1, 2021, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V21, P331, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2021.05.039
TI Comprehensive Safety Evaluation of Pesticide Residue Pollution of
   Agricultural Products Based on Entropy Weight-fuzzy Mathematics Method;
   [基于熵权-模糊分析法的农产品农药残留安全风险综合评价]
AU Cheng H/1; Xing J; Zheng R; Shen J; Hu L; Mao L; Xu X/1; Zhou Z/1; Lu J;
   Zhao S/3
TC 10
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2021
AB in order to explore a comprehensive evaluation method of food safety
   matching to the big data of supervised sampling test data , a fuzzy
   mathematics model for safety assessment of pesticide residue pollution of
   agricultural products was established based on the principle of entropy
   weight . in accordance with the large scale of sampling test data of
   pesticide residues in fruits and vegetables collected continuously from
   august 2017 to july 2019 , an efficient comprehensive evaluation model was
   constructed and the evaluation effect of fuzzy mathematics model was studied
   by comparing with the traditional single factor analysis . the results
   indicated that the overall safety of agricultural products in the market was
   at the level i ( micro risk ) . among them , the comprehensive risk of
   pesticide residue pollution of agricultural products was mainly determined
   by dimethylimide and benzimidazole pesticide in leafy vegetables ( level ii
   , low risk ) and bulbous vegetables ( level ii , low risk ) . this result
   was valuable for developing the supervision and sampling . compared with the
   traditional analytical method , not only the comprehensive fuzzy evaluation
   method with the normalized and uniform evaluation system could achieve
   consistent evaluation results , but demonstrate better evaluation
   effectiveness for big data analysis . as a result , it is considerably
   applicable for the food safety evaluation and benefit to improving the
   efficiency of food safety supervision . 2021 , editorial office of journal
   of cifst . all right reserved .
DE agricultural product; entropy method; fuzzy mathematics; pesticide residue;
   safety evaluation
ID agricultural products; agricultural robots; big data; chemical
   contamination; entropy; pesticides; pollution; safety engineering; sampling;
   vegetables; comprehensive evaluation; comprehensive evaluation model;
   comprehensive fuzzy evaluation methods; comprehensive risks; evaluation
   results; fruits and vegetables; fuzzy mathematics methods; safety
   assessments; food safety

---

UT 18
AR Ataguba G, 2024, HUM BEHAV EMERG TECHNOL, V2024, DOI 10.1155/2024/4443316
TI Exploring Deep Learning–Based Models for Sociocultural African Food
   Recognition System
AU Ataguba G; Alhasani M; Daniel J; Ogbuju E; Orji R
TC 2
SO HUM BEHAV EMERG TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food recognition , a field under food computing , has significantly promoted
   people s dietary decision making and culinary customs . we present the
   design and evaluation of a sociocultural app for african food recognition
   using deep learning models such as transfer learning . deep learning models
   have multiple processing layers that make them robust in image recognition .
   based on this capability of deep learning models , we explored them in this
   study . a total of 3142 food image datasets were collected from three
   african countries : nigeria , ghana , and cameroon . using the datasets , we
   developed and trained a deep learning model for recognizing african foods .
   the model attained a test accuracy of 94.5 % . the model was further
   deployed in a food recognition app . to evaluate the predictive ability of
   the app , we recruited 16 participants who were interviewed and subsequently
   used the app in the wild for 7 days . in a comparative evaluation between
   the app and human recognition capabilities , we found that the app
   recognized 71 % of the instances of food images generated by the
   participants and tested with the app , while the human evaluators (
   participants ) could only recognize 56 % of the food datasets . participants
   were mostly able to recognize some foods from their own country .
   furthermore , participants suggested some design features for the app . in
   view of this , we offer design recommendations for researchers and designers
   of sociocultural food recognition systems
DE african foods; food recognition system; human computer interaction; machine
   learning; socio-cultural

---

UT 19
AR Song J/1, 2023, ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL, V20, DOI
   10.1145/3600095
TI Towards Food Image Retrieval via Generalization-Oriented Sampling and Loss
   Function Design
AU Song J/1; Li Z/5; Min W; Jiang S
TC 7
SO ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL
PY 2023
AB food computing has increasingly received widespread attention in the
   multimedia field . as a basic task of food computing , food image retrieval
   has wide applications , that is , food image retrieval can help users to
   find the desired food from a large number of food images . besides , the
   retrieved information can be applied to establish a richer database for the
   subsequent food content related recommendation . food image retrieval aims
   to achieve better performance on novel categories . thus , it is worth
   studying to transfer the embedding ability from the training set to the
   unseen test set , that is , the generalization of the model . food is
   influenced by various factors , such as culture and geography , leading to
   great differences between domains , such as asian food and western food .
   therefore , it is challenging to study the generalization of the model in
   food image retrieval . in this article , we improve the classical metric
   learning framework and propose a generalization oriented sampling strategy ,
   which boosts the generalization of the model by maximizing the intra class
   distance from a proportion of positive pairs to avoid the excessive distance
   compression in the embedding space . considering that the existing
   optimization process is in an opposite direction to our proposed sampling
   strategy , we further propose an adaptive gradient assignment policy named
   gradient adaptive optimization , which can alleviate the intra class
   distance compression during optimization by assigning different gradients to
   different samples . extensive evaluation on three popular food image
   datasets demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method . we also
   experiment on three popular general datasets to prove that solving the
   problem from the generalization can also improve the performance of general
   image retrieval . code is available at 2023 copyright held by the owner /
   author ( s ) .
DE deep learning; food computing; image retrieval
ID deep learning; embeddings; image retrieval; class-distance; deep learning;
   embeddings; food computing; food image; generalization; intra class;
   performance; sampling functions; sampling strategies; image enhancement

---

UT 20
AR Beć KB, 2025, ADV FOOD NUTR RES, V115, P293, DOI 10.1016/bs.afnr.2025.01.002
TI Handheld NIR spectroscopy for real-time on-site food quality and safety
   monitoring
AU Beć KB; Grabska J; Huck CW
TC 6
SO ADV FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2025
AB this chapter reviews the applications and future directions of portable near
   infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy in food analytics , with a focus on quality
   control , safety monitoring , and fraud detection . portable nir
   spectrometers are essential for real time , non destructive analysis of food
   composition , and their use is rapidly expanding across various stages of
   the food production chain from agriculture and processing to retail and
   consumer applications . the functional design of miniaturized nir
   spectrometers is examined , linking the technological diversity of these
   sensors to their application potential in specific roles within the food
   sector , while discussing challenges related to thermal stability , energy
   efficiency , and spectral accuracy . current trends in data analysis ,
   including chemometrics and artificial intelligence , are also highlighted ,
   as the successful application of portable spectroscopy heavily depends on
   this key aspect of the analytical process . this discussion is based on
   recent literature , with a focus on the last five years , and addresses the
   application of portable nir spectroscopy in food quality assessment and
   composition analysis , food safety and contaminant detection , and food
   authentication and fraud prevention . the chapter concludes that portable
   nir spectroscopy has significantly enhanced food analytics over the past
   decade , with ongoing trends likely to lead to even wider adoption in the
   near future . future challenges related to ultra miniaturization and
   emerging consumer oriented spectrometers emphasize the need for robust pre
   calibrated models and the development of global models for key applications
   . the integration of nir spectrometers with cloud computing , iot , and
   machine learning is expected to drive advancements in real time monitoring ,
   predictive modeling , and data processing , fitting the growing demand for
   improved safety , quality , and fraud detection from the farm to the fork
DE food quality and safety; handheld; miniaturized sensors; near infrared
   spectroscopy; nir
ID food analysis; food contamination; food quality; food safety; humans;
   quality control; spectroscopy near infrared; devices; food analysis; food
   contamination; food quality; food safety; human; near infrared spectroscopy;
   procedures; quality control

---

UT 21
AR Li X/12, 2020, J PHYS CONF SER, V1574, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1574/1/012052
TI Study on Nutritional Components Detection in Food Safety Based on Big Data
AU Li X/12
TC 0
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2020
AB in recent years , food safety problems occur frequently , although only a
   very small number , but affect the nerves of the general public , ' people
   take food as the sky ' , in food safety is really not ambiguous . by
   expounding the requirements and expectations of food safety , this paper
   introduces the method of big data technology in contrast to the current
   situation and problems of nutrition detection in food safety . with the help
   of the application of big data , several suggestions are put forward in
   order to study an accurate , comprehensive and efficient method for the
   detection of food nutrition components
DE big data; food safety; nutrients
ID food safety; nutrition; current situation; data technologies; food
   nutrition; general publics; big data

---

UT 22
AR Vukolić D, 2025, J TOUR FUTUR, DOI 10.1108/JTF-02-2025-0033
TI Revolutionizing the hospitality industry: the impact of AI technologies on
   efficient food management and reduction of food waste
AU Vukolić D; Gajić T; Cabral Ó; Veljović S; Knežević S
TC 5
SO J TOUR FUTUR
PY 2025
AB purpose the study aims to examine how ai contributes to food waste reduction
   and improves operational efficiency in the hospitality sector . in the
   context of sustainability , the research investigates ai s role in inventory
   management , process automation and waste tracking . the findings provide
   insights into the potential of ai technologies to optimize kitchen
   operations , reduce environmental footprints and enhance resource
   utilization . the results can assist industry stakeholders in developing ai
   driven strategies to improve efficiency and business sustainability . design
   / methodology / approach this study employs a quantitative approach and
   structural equation modeling ( sem ) to analyze the impact of artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) on food waste reduction in the hospitality industry . a
   total of 234 managers and head chefs from 117 hospitality establishments in
   serbia and montenegro participated in the survey . the data were analyzed
   using smartpls , focusing on ai applications in inventory management , menu
   planning , process automation , waste tracking and recycling . the study
   also incorporates exploratory factor analysis and regression models to
   assess the significance of ai in optimizing food management and enhancing
   operational efficiency . findings the results confirm that ai significantly
   reduces food waste through improved inventory control , personalized menu
   planning and automated waste tracking . the modeling demonstrates a positive
   impact of ai on waste reduction , while real time monitoring enables swift
   corrective actions . the findings highlight the economic and environmental
   benefits of ai , emphasizing its crucial role in optimizing hospitality
   business operations . empirical evidence supports ai as a strategic tool for
   more efficient food management and a more sustainable hospitality sector .
   research limitations / implications the study is limited to the hospitality
   industry in serbia and montenegro , which may reduce its applicability to
   other regions with different economic conditions . the research focuses on
   managerial perspectives , with less emphasis on consumer habits and
   behaviors . although ai yields positive outcomes , challenges such as high
   implementation costs , staff training and technical integration require
   further analysis . future research should include longitudinal studies to
   assess ai s long term impact and explore cultural differences in its
   adoption . practical implications the findings suggest that hospitality
   establishments should invest in ai for inventory tracking , kitchen process
   automation and real time waste monitoring to reduce costs and improve
   efficiency . ai can enhance portion control , demand forecasting and
   sustainable food sourcing . additionally , ai analytics can help identify
   inefficiencies and develop waste reduction strategies , enabling managers to
   make data driven decisions , increase profitability and promote
   environmentally responsible practices . originality / value this study is
   among the first to empirically assess the role of ai in food waste reduction
   in the hospitality sector . it provides novel insights into kitchen
   operation optimization and sustainability through ai implementation . the
   study contributes to the literature by integrating various ai
   functionalities such as inventory management , process automation and waste
   tracking into a comprehensive framework . the findings are valuable for
   professionals , policymakers and researchers interested in the application
   of ai for efficient food management and sustainable hospitality services .
   2025 dragan vukolic , tamara gajic , oscar cabral , sonja veljovic and
   snezana knezevic
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); food management; food waste; future
   technologies; hospitality industry

---

UT 23
AR Ai Lee O, 2020, IOP CONF SER MATER SCI ENG, V917, DOI
   10.1088/1757-899X/917/1/012057
TI Computerized integer programming method: Menu scheduling for critical
   illness patients
AU Ai Lee O; Firdaus Sufahani S; Helmy Abd Wahab M; Zulkarnain Syed Idrus S;
   Surono S; Ahmad A/1
TC 1
SO IOP CONF SER MATER SCI ENG
PY 2020
AB in this paper , critical illness patients are referred to breast cancer
   patients . this cancer is developed from the breast tissue . it is developed
   due to the erratic growth of cells of the breast tissue . in malaysia ,
   according to the statistics in 2017 , one out of 20 individuals has the
   breast cancer in their life . in order to help the breast cancer patient in
   choosing the best food in their meal of a whole day , the way on how to use
   different mathematical programming methods to prepare a proper and healthy
   planning diet menu that fulfill all the nutrients constraints with the
   minimum cost for the breast cancer patient will be showed out . in the
   literature review , previous research for the menu planning , approaches
   used for the optimization are being reviewed in detail . in methodology ,
   there are two mathematical programming methods that will be applied which
   are integer programming and binary integer programming methods . there are
   two sets of data which is 100 food items for small data model and 426 food
   items for big data model . at the end of this research , it should be able
   to provide a minimum cost one day menu and weekly menu for the breast cancer
   patients with the sufficient nutritional value
DE breast cancer; menu planning and integer programming

---

UT 24
AR Zhou P, 2025, PATTERNS, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.patter.2025.101234
TI FoodSky: A food-oriented large language model that can pass the chef and
   dietetic examinations
AU Zhou P; Min W; Fu C; Jin Y/1; Huang M; Li X/9; Mei S; Jiang S
TC 15
SO PATTERNS
PY 2025
AB food is the cornerstone of both survival and social life . with the
   increasing complexity of global dietary cultures , there is a growing demand
   for food intelligence to enable tasks like recipe recommendations and diet
   disease correlation discovery . to address this , we introduce the food
   oriented large language model ( llm ) foodsky , which offers fine grained
   perception and reasoning on food data . we constructed a food corpus ,
   foodearth , from various authoritative sources to enhance foodsky s
   knowledge . we also developed the topic based selective state space model
   and hierarchical topic retrieval augmented generation algorithms to improve
   foodsky s ability to capture fine grained food semantics and generate
   context aware food relevant text . extensive experiments show that foodsky
   significantly outperforms general purpose llms on the chinese national chef
   examination and dietetic examination , achieving an accuracy of 83.3 % and
   91.2 % , respectively . beyond enhancing culinary creativity and promoting
   healthier eating patterns , foodsky aims to establish a new benchmark for
   domain specific llms in addressing real world food related challenges
DE food computing; instruction tuning; large language models; retrieval-
   augmented generation
ID fine grained; food computing; generation algorithm; growing demand;
   instruction tuning; language model; large language model; retrieval-
   augmented generation; social life; state-space models; food ingredients

---

UT 25
AR Zhu X/1, 2026, IEEE J BIOMED HEAL INFORMAT, DOI 10.1109/JBHI.2026.3683800
TI Lightweight Food Localization and Recognition via Multi-Branch Feature
   Learning and Enhanced Aggregation
AU Zhu X/1; Yang Y/6; Cao P; Sheng G; Denby B
TC 0
SO IEEE J BIOMED HEAL INFORMAT
PY 2026
AB food image localization and recognition on edge devices is a core task in
   food computing , enabling convenient dietary monitoring and efficient health
   management . however , food localization and recognition presents
   significant challenges due to inherent intra class variability , inter class
   similarity , and non rigid characteristics . to address these challenges ,
   we propose yolo multi feature fusion , a novel multi feature fusion model
   for food image localization and recognition . building upon the yolov5
   framework , yolo multi feature fusion integrates several key components :
   the ghost bottleneck from the lightweight ghostnet , a newly designed multi
   scale feature bottleneck , a bidirectional vision transformer , and an
   information cross exchange module . these modules enable the model to
   comprehensively capture and fuse complex feature information from food
   images while simultaneously reducing both model parameters and computational
   load . extensive evaluations on benchmark datasets ( uec food100 , uec
   food256 , and zsfood ) demonstrate that yolo multi feature fusion
   outperforms existing lightweight detectors . compared to yolov5 , yolo multi
   feature fusion achieves map improvements of 3.0 % , 3.0 % , and 0.3 % on
   these datasets , respectively , with parameter reductions of 5.7m , 4.7m ,
   and 4.9m , and computational load reductions of 44.6 gflops , 42.0 gflops ,
   and 42.0 gflops . the source code will be released upon the formal
   publication of the paper
DE computer vision; deep learning; food computing; lightweight; localization;
   recognition
ID benchmarking; deep learning; learning systems; nutrition; computational
   loads; deep learning; feature learning; food computing; food image; image
   localization; lightweight; localization; multi-feature fusion; recognition;
   computer vision

---

UT 26
AR Garbero A, 2021, FOOD SECUR, V13, P1125, DOI 10.1007/s12571-021-01190-8
TI Spatial dynamics across food systems transformation in IFAD investments: a
   machine learning approach
AU Garbero A; Resce G; Carneiro B
TC 11
SO FOOD SECUR
PY 2021
AB the food systems approach has gained renewed prominence in recent years ,
   due to its role toward gaining an understanding of food insecurity and
   malnutrition . a ' food systems ' lens has therefore become essential to
   better design development interventions and innovations that can positively
   impact food systems outcomes . this study provides evidence on the dynamics
   across food system dimensions within development projects supported by the
   international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) . a custom taxonomy
   was developed and machine learning techniques primarily focused on
   supervised text mining , network analysis and lasso regression were applied
   to ifad project documentation to extract analytics about food systems
   spatial and temporal thematic representation over 40 years of project
   implementation . the paper thus provides insights about the dynamics as well
   as transformations of food systems within ifad s stated activities ,
   providing a historical overview of how the fund has tackled food systems
   over four decades of project life cycles . findings show an overall increase
   in reporting against food system dimensions and consolidate the
   applicability of machine learning analytics to uncover trends about
   international agencies activities and accelerate knowledge generation around
   strategic themes . 2021 , international society for plant pathology and
   springer nature b . v .
DE big data; development agencies; food systems; ifad; machine learning; text
   mining
ID food security; innovation; machine learning; malnutrition; spatial analysis;
   taxonomy

---

UT 27
AR Wang Q/2, 2025, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM, P6223, DOI
   10.1145/3746027.3755583
TI Mitigating Cross-modal Representation Bias for Multicultural Image-to-Recipe
   Retrieval
AU Wang Q/2; Ngo C-W; Cao Y/1; Lim E-P
TC 0
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2025
AB existing approaches for image to recipe retrieval have the implicit
   assumption that a food image can fully capture the details textually
   documented in its recipe . however , a food image only reflects the visual
   outcome of a cooked dish and not the underlying cooking process .
   consequently , learning cross modal representations to bridge the modality
   gap between images and recipes tends to ignore subtle , recipe specific
   details that are not visually apparent but are crucial for recipe retrieval
   . specifically , the representations are biased to capture the dominant
   visual elements , resulting in difficulty in ranking similar recipes with
   subtle differences in use of ingredients and cooking methods . the bias in
   representation learning is expected to be more severe when the training data
   is mixed of images and recipes sourced from different cuisines . this paper
   proposes a novel causal approach that predicts the culinary elements
   potentially overlooked in images , while explicitly injecting these elements
   into cross modal representation learning to mitigate biases . experiments
   are conducted on the standard monolingual recipe1m dataset and a newly
   curated multilingual multicultural cuisine dataset . the results indicate
   that the proposed causal representation learning is capable of uncovering
   subtle ingredients and cooking actions and achieves impressive retrieval
   performance on both monolingual and multilingual multicultural datasets
DE cross-modal retrieval; food computing; recipe retrieval
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; human engineering; image processing; image
   retrieval; cooking methods; cooking process; cross-modal; cross-modal
   representations; cross-modal retrieval; food computing; food image; recipe
   retrieval; training data; visual elements; cooking

---

UT 28
AR Sharmila S, 2025, IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT TECHNOL ICACT, P778, DOI
   10.1109/ICACT67549.2025.11351423
TI Healthy Bites: An AI-Based Calorie Tracking and Personalized Food
   Recommendation System for Indian Dietary Patterns
AU Sharmila S; Piramu M; Jayashree T; Iswarya N
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT TECHNOL ICACT
PY 2025
AB conventional health applications are likely to fall short on cultural
   relevance , whole person care , and responsive adaptation in real time
   particularly for regions where food culture is deeply ingrained . this
   disconnect between generic nutritional tools and local requirements has left
   users of such tools craving authentic health guidance , especially those
   with chronic diseases like diabetes . healthy bites is a tailored wellness
   application designed to bridge this gap by providing contextaware food
   tracking , intelligent food recommendations , and proactive health advice ,
   with focus on the particular dietary habits of tamil nadu . the application
   enables users to log meals , monitor calorie consumption , and get real time
   notifications when limits are met . one of the advanced junk food analysis
   features calculates a score based on eating habits so that users can
   recognize and steer clear of unhealthy eating behavior . for diabetics or
   those at risk , the app considers health parameters like glucose , blood
   pressure , bmi , insulin levels , and age to offer personalized meal ideas
   through a forecasting model . the integrated ai chatbot is will engage by
   recommending exercises and offering simple and effective home remedies for
   their issues , and recommending recipes for food recycling . by combining
   geographically aware food intelligence , user data , and conversational ai ,
   healthy bites offers an all inclusive solution to healthy eating and living
   in a sustainable and more customized way
DE app development; calorie tracking; diabetic food recommendations; food
   recommendations; machine learning
ID artificial intelligence; nutrition; app development; calorie tracking;
   chronic disease; diabetic food recommendation; dietary patterns; food
   recommendation; indian dietary; machine learning; real- time; wellness
   applications; learning systems

---

UT 29
AR Singh A/1, 2022, J BIG DATA, V9, DOI 10.1186/s40537-021-00551-6
TI Modeling the public attitude towards organic foods: a big data and text
   mining approach
AU Singh A/1; Glińska-Neweś A
TC 64
SO J BIG DATA
PY 2022
AB this study aims to identify the topics that users post on twitter about
   organic foods and to analyze the emotion based sentiment of those tweets .
   the study addresses a call for an application of big data and text mining in
   different fields of research , as well as proposes more objective research
   methods in studies on food consumption . there is a growing interest in
   understanding consumer choices for foods which are caused by the predominant
   contribution of the food industry to climate change . so far , customer
   attitudes toward organic food have been studied mostly with self reported
   methods , such as questionnaires and interviews , which have many
   limitations . therefore , in the present study , we used big data and text
   mining techniques as more objective methods to analyze the public attitude
   about organic foods . a total of 43,724 twitter posts were extracted with
   streaming application programming interface ( api ) . latent dirichlet
   allocation ( lda ) algorithm was applied for topic modeling . a test of
   topic significance was performed to evaluate the quality of the topics .
   public sentiment was analyzed based on the nrc emotion lexicon by utilizing
   syuzhet package . topic modeling results showed that people discuss on
   variety of themes related to organic foods such as plant based diet , saving
   the planet , organic farming and standardization , authenticity , and food
   delivery , etc . sentiment analysis results suggest that people view organic
   foods positively , though there are also people who are skeptical about the
   claims that organic foods are natural and free from chemicals and pesticides
   . the study contributes to the field of consumer behavior by implementing
   research methods grounded in text mining and big data . the study
   contributes also to the advancement of research in the field of sustainable
   food consumption by providing a fresh perspective on public attitude toward
   organic foods , filling the gaps in existing literature and research
DE big data; latent dirichlet allocation ( lda ); machine learning; organic
   foods; sentiment analysis; text mining; topic modeling
ID agriculture; application programming interfaces ( api ); climate change;
   consumer behavior; data mining; food supply; machine learning; organic
   chemicals; quality control; sentiment analysis; social networking ( online
   ); statistics; food consumption; latent dirichlet allocation; machine
   learning; organic foods; public attitudes; research method; sentiment
   analysis; text mining; topic modeling; big data

---

UT 30
AR Choi D, 2023, EXPERT SYS APPL, V224, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2023.120041
TI KitchenScale: Learning to predict ingredient quantities from recipe contexts
AU Choi D; Gim M; Badreddine S; Kim H/1; Park D/2; Kang J
TC 11
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2023
AB determining proper quantities for ingredients is an essential part of
   cooking practice from the perspective of enriching tastiness and promoting
   healthiness . we introduce kitchenscale , a fine tuned pre trained language
   model ( plm ) that predicts a target ingredient s quantity and measurement
   unit given its recipe context . to effectively train our kitchenscale model
   , we formulate an ingredient quantity prediction task that consists of three
   sub tasks which are ingredient measurement type classification , unit
   classification , and quantity regression task . furthermore , we utilized
   transfer learning of cooking knowledge from recipe texts to plms . we
   adopted the discrete latent exponent ( dexp ) method to cope with high
   variance of numerical scales in recipe corpora . experiments with our newly
   constructed dataset and recommendation examples demonstrate kitchenscale s
   understanding of various recipe contexts and generalizability in predicting
   ingredient quantities . we implemented a web application for kitchenscale to
   demonstrate its functionality in recommending ingredient quantities
   expressed in numerals ( e . g . , 2 ) with units ( e . g . , ounce )
DE cooking knowledge; food computing; food measurement; ingredient quantity
   prediction; pre-trained language models; representation learning
ID computational linguistics; cooking; kitchens; learning systems; numerical
   methods; cooking knowledge; food computing; food measurement; ingredient
   quantity prediction; language model; pre-trained language model; prediction
   tasks; representation learning; subtask; type classifications; forecasting

---

UT 31
AR Kazancoglu Y, 2025, J ENTERP MANAG, V38, P219, DOI 10.1108/JEIM-12-2020-0521
TI Drivers of implementing Big Data Analytics in food supply chains for
   transition to a circular economy and sustainable operations management
AU Kazancoglu Y; Ozbiltekin Pala M; Sezer MD; Luthra S; Kumar A/6
TC 84
SO J ENTERP MANAG
PY 2025
AB purpose : the aim of this study is to evaluate big data analytics ( bda )
   drivers in the context of food supply chains ( fsc ) for transition to a
   circular economy ( ce ) and sustainable operations management ( som ) .
   design / methodology / approach : ten different bda drivers in fsc are
   examined for transition to ce . these are supply chains ( sc ) visibility ,
   operations efficiency , information management and technology ,
   collaborations between sc partners , data driven innovation , demand
   management and production planning , talent management , organizational
   commitment , management team capability and governmental incentive . an
   interpretive structural modeling ( ism ) methodology is used to indicate the
   relationships between identified drivers to stimulate transition to ce and
   som . drivers and pair wise interactions between these drivers are developed
   by semi structured interviews with a number of experts from industry and
   academia . findings : the results show that information management and
   technology , governmental incentive and management team capability drivers
   are classified as independent factors . organizational commitment and
   operations efficiency are categorized as dependent factors . sc visibility ,
   data driven innovation , demand management and production planning , talent
   management and collaborations between sc partners can be classified as
   linkage factors . it can be concluded that governmental incentive is the
   most fundamental driver to achieve bda applications in fsc transition from
   linearity to ce and som . in addition , operations efficiency ,
   collaborations between sc partners and organizational commitment are key bda
   drivers in fsc for transition to ce and som . research limitations /
   implications : the interactions between these drivers will provide benefits
   to both industry and academia in prioritizing and understanding these
   drivers more thoroughly when implementing bda based on a range of factors .
   this study will provide valuable insights . the results from this study will
   help in drawing up regulations to prevent food fraud , implementing laws
   concerning government incentives , reducing food loss and waste , increasing
   tracing and traceability , providing training activities to improve
   knowledge about bda and focusing more on data analytics . originality /
   value : the main contribution of the study is to analyze bda drivers in the
   context of fsc for transition to ce and som . this study is unique in
   examining these bda drivers based on fsc . we hope to find sustainable
   solutions to minimize losses or other negative impacts on these sc
DE big data analytics; circular economy; drivers; food supply chains;
   interpretive structural modeling; sustainable operations management

---

UT 32
AR Washington H, 2023, APPL HUM FACTOR ERGON INT, V108, P405, DOI
   10.54941/ahfe1003957
TI Examining Local Food Deserts Using Visual Analytics
AU Washington H; Jiang S/2; Davis L; Kim HN
TC 3
SO APPL HUM FACTOR ERGON INT
PY 2023
AB food insecurity , an economic and social condition where households have
   limited access to nutritious food , is a long standing and growing problem
   in both the rural and urban areas of the united states . food deserts refer
   to areas that do not have adequate food access to affordable and nutritious
   food . food deserts can be characterized by availability , accessibility ,
   accommodation , affordability , and acceptability ( 5a s ) . this research
   investigates food deserts in mecklenburg county , north carolina , which
   includes the city of charlotte . the food insecure population estimate in
   mecklenburg county is about 15 % which is higher than the national average
   of 11 % . using visual analytics , a combination of analytics and human
   factors , this study aims to examine how age , education , and income are
   related to food deserts in mecklenburg county . data gathered from us census
   bureau was used for analysis . results indicated that education and food
   desert status , and age and food desert status in mecklenburg county were
   related
DE food desert; food insecurity; visual analytics

---

UT 33
AR Zhang J/3, 2024, PROC - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL THINGS SYST AIOTSYS, DOI
   10.1109/AIoTSys63104.2024.10780517
TI Fine-Grained Food Image Segmentation Method Based on MS-Mask2Former
AU Zhang J/3; Xu Y/5; Zhang H/4; Li H-A
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL THINGS SYST AIOTSYS
PY 2024
AB in the context of the combination of artificial intelligence of things (
   aiot ) and food computing , food image segmentation is a current research
   hotspot . it plays an important role in food selection , intake and
   nutritional assessment . the main problems leading to food image
   segmentation errors are the presence of a large number of irregularly shaped
   objects in the same category and the overlapping or intersection of edge
   textures of multi category objects . we propose a fine grained food image
   segmentation method based on ms mask2former to address these difficulties .
   on the basic network structure of mask2former , first , we designed the
   multi scale enhanced feature pyramid network ( mefpn ) . this module
   processes feature maps of different resolutions in multi scale feature maps
   separately to capture global and local features , thereby expanding the
   receptive field of the network and extracting complex features of
   irregularly shaped foods . secondly , we propose semantic concern ( sc ) to
   realize the positional prior . guided by low resolution feature maps , the
   sc module selects regions with richer semantic information from high
   resolution feature maps to achieve clear segmentation of food objects and
   obtain distinct boundaries . the experimental results show that our ms
   mask2former method improves 2.16 % in terms of miou , 2.37 % in terms of
   macc , and 1.18 % in terms of aacc compared to other representative and
   excellent methods in the field of food segmentation , demonstrating
   excellent segmentation performance and achieving sota performance on the
   foodse2103 dataset
DE aiot; food computing; food image; semantic segmentation
ID current; artificial intelligence of thing; feature map; fine grained; food
   computing; food image; hotspots; images segmentations; segmentation methods;
   semantic segmentation; semantic segmentation

---

UT 34
AR Negru V-A, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P13, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW61823.2024.00007
TI From Text to Taste: Advancing Smart Appliances with Multilingual Recipe
   Interpretation
AU Negru V-A; Vacareanu R; Lemnaru C; Surdeanu M; Potolea R
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2024
AB in this work , we leverage pre trained language models ( plm ) to predict
   cooking parameters directly from text based recipes . we explore a
   multilingual multi task setting , where we train a single transformer based
   model to handle six indo european languages and three tasks that identify
   cooking parameters : nutrient composition categorization , cooked product
   aspect , and moisture reduction levels . based on empirical analysis , our
   proposed method improves over a strong baseline by an average of 0.76 % on
   the three tasks . we show that this multilingual multitask setting is
   particularly beneficial for low resource languages , increasing the
   performance by as much as 7.4 % for the harder tasks . we then show that the
   resulting model is capable of zero shot cross lingual generalization : the
   model can effectively be applied to languages for which it has not seen any
   labeled examples . we find that leveraging unlabeled cooking recipes to
   continue the pre training phase of the model further increases its zero shot
   performance by exposing it to the food domain . we report zero shot
   enhancements per task equal to 0.82 % , 8.45 % , and 8.95 % respectively .
   our work shows that transformer based models are capable of effectively
   interpreting and predicting diverse cooking related parameters from text ,
   which can have implications in the development of smart kitchen technologies
   such as smart appliances
DE food computing; kitchen automation; multilinguality; natural language
   processing; smart appliance
ID cooking; zero-shot learning; food computing; kitchen automation; language
   model; language processing; multi tasks; multilinguality; natural language
   processing; natural languages; performance; smart appliances; natural
   language processing systems

---

UT 35
AR Asgari A, 2025, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V253, P1631, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2025.01.225
TI Uncovering the role of big data analytics on the resilience of agri-food
   supply chains: A systematic literature review
AU Asgari A
TC 14
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB in an era marked by frequent disruptions , ensuring the resilience of agri
   food supply chains is critical for maintaining food availability and
   accessibility . the significant increase in generation and complexity of
   data due to the advancement of computational power and relational databases
   , has made the discovery of new information through the process of data
   collection and manipulation possible . big data analytics can contribute
   significantly to attaining agri food supply chain and has many implications
   inside the food sector . this systematic literature review investigates the
   role of big data analytics in bolstering agri food supply chain s ability to
   anticipate , respond to , and recover from disruptions . the findings reveal
   a positive influence of predictive and prescriptive analytics on readiness
   and response phases of resilience , particularly on capabilities such as
   risk management , flexibility , and agility . based on these findings , a
   comprehensive framework is proposed which maps the current state of the art
   in addition to identifying gaps in the current literature , offering
   valuable insights for practitioners and guiding future research
DE agri-food supply chain; big data analytics; resilience; systematic
   literature review
ID current; agri-food supply chains; big data analytic; computational power;
   data analytics; data collection; food availability; relational database;
   resilience; systematic literature review; food ingredients

---

UT 36
AR Christos M, 2025, IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI, V1558, DOI
   10.1088/1755-1315/1558/1/012064
TI FoodFlow-1.0: A Smart IoT System for Manual Food Waste Logging for Hotels in
   the Med Region
AU Christos M; Savvas P; Achilleas A; Houssam H; Panagiotis P
TC 0
SO IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI
PY 2025
AB food waste is an unquestionable problem in the mediterranean hospitality
   sector , where buffet style dining and seasonal tourism contribute to large
   volumes of discarded food . although , this is often perceived as an
   unavoidable consequence of service , hotel managers are currently not able
   to quantify the problem , much less to act on it . this paper presents
   foodflow 1.0 , a smart iot system designed to tackle the problem of food
   waste management in hotel kitchens by enabling manual recording of food
   waste , at each stage of the process chain , thus empowering hotel chefs ,
   managers , and owners to exploit the value of data . via a structured food
   categorization process has been adapted to local hotel menus , enabling
   kitchen staff track details of every food wasted . the system consists of an
   integrated hardware station , which includes an industrial grade scale , a
   touchscreen , and a camera . the tablet software is connected to a cloud
   based platform for submitting data and a web application provides a
   dashboard to data analytics and visualization . despite strong initial staff
   resistance , the first contribution to build a strong dataset was achieved .
   also , the intuitive food waste analytics dashboard convincingly revealed
   waste volumes and patterns , empowering evidence based decisions that can
   foster sustainable kitchen operations and challenge rooted local attitudes
   toward food waste . by generating reliable data and enabling evidence based
   decisions , it supports the second contribution that more sustainable
   kitchen operations contribute to changing long standing cultural perceptions
   around food waste in the med region

---

UT 37
AR Wang J/5, 2025, INT SYST VIS COMMUN INTERACT VINCI, DOI
   10.1145/3769534.3769598
TI SAHNet: A Spectral-Aware Hashing Network for Large-Scale Fine-Grained Food
   Image Retrieval
AU Wang J/5; Wang Y/1; Yang B/1; Sheng G; Wang L/1
TC 0
SO INT SYST VIS COMMUN INTERACT VINCI
PY 2025
AB fine grained food image retrieval is vital for applications such as dietary
   monitoring and personalized nutrition . while hashing based methods are
   popular for their storage and computational efficiency , existing approaches
   often fail to exploit category specific spectral spatial features and tend
   to preserve redundant representations , thereby limiting their
   discriminative ability . to address these issues , we propose sahnet , a
   hierarchical network with a multi scale backbone and two key modules :
   spectral spatial information mining ( ssim ) for dual branch spectral /
   spatial feature extraction , and selective feature filtering ( sff ) for
   enhancing critical cues while suppressing noise . sahnet generates compact ,
   discriminative hash codes and achieves state of the art performance on four
   benchmark fine grained food datasets
DE fine grained image retrieval; food computing; hash learning; spectral-
   spatial feature learning
ID benchmarking; feature extraction; food storage; hash functions; image
   retrieval; nutrition; feature learning; fine grained; fine grained image
   retrieval; food computing; food computing; food image; hash learning; large-
   scales; spatial features; spectral-spatial feature learning; computational
   efficiency

---

UT 38
AR Rejeb A, 2022, J DATA MANAG, V4, P33, DOI 10.1007/s42488-021-00064-0
TI Big data in the food supply chain: a literature review
AU Rejeb A; Keogh JG; Rejeb K
TC 87
SO J DATA MANAG
PY 2022
AB the emergence of big data ( bd ) offers new opportunities for food
   businesses to address emerging risks and operational challenges . bd denotes
   the integration and analysis of multiple data sets , which are inherently
   complex , voluminous and are often of inadequate quality and structure .
   while bd is a well established method in supply chain management , academic
   research on its application in the food ecosystem is still lagging . to fill
   this knowledge gap and capture the latest developments in this field , a
   systematic literature review was performed . forty one papers were selected
   and thoroughly examined and analyzed to identify the enablers of bd in the
   food supply chain . the review primarily attempted to obtain an answer to
   the following research question : ' what are the possibilities of leveraging
   big data in the food supply chain ? ' six significant benefits of applying
   bd in the food industry were identified , namely , the extraction of
   valuable knowledge and insights , decision making support , improvement of
   food chain efficiencies , reliable forecasting , waste minimization , and
   food safety . finally , some challenges and future research directions were
   outlined
DE big data; food; food safety; supply chain

---

UT 39
AR Alper J, 2024, ROLE ADV COMPUT PREDICT TECHNOL BIG DATA ANAL RELAT FOOD NUTR
   RES PROC WORK BR, P1, DOI 10.17226/27482
TI The Role of Advanced Computation, Predictive Technologies, and Big Data
   Analytics Related to Food and Nutrition Research: Proceedings of a Workshop
   in Brief
AU Alper J
TC 1
SO ROLE ADV COMPUT PREDICT TECHNOL BIG DATA ANAL RELAT FOOD NUTR RES PROC WORK
   BR
PY 2024
AB the national academies food and nutrition board hosted a hybrid public
   workshop in october 2023 to explore opportunities and challenges related to
   applying advanced computation , big data analytics , and high performance
   computing , including artificial intelligence , machine learning , and deep
   learning , to support advances in food systems and nutrition research .
   speakers discussed the appropriate use of evidence generated from these
   methods to inform food and nutrition related programs and policies .
   national academy of sciences
ID big data; data analytics; deep learning; predictive analytics; data
   analytics; food nutrition; food system; machine learning; national
   academies; performance computing; nutrition

---

UT 40
AR Alves VCD, 2025, AGRIENG, V7, DOI 10.3390/agriengineering7060170
TI Predicting Pineapple Quality from Hyperspectral Data of Plant Parts Applied
   to Machine Learning
AU Alves VCD; de Lima SF; Santana DC; Barreto RF; da Cunha RA; da Silva Cândido
   Seron AC; Teodoro LPR; Teodoro PE; de Cássia Félix Alvarez R; Campos CNS; da
   Silva Junior CA; Mingotte FLC
TC 2
SO AGRIENG
PY 2025
AB food quality detection by machine learning ( ml ) is more practical and
   sustainable as it does not require sample preparation and reagents . however
   , the prediction of pineapple quality by hyperspectral data applied to ml is
   not known . the aim of this study was to verify accurate ml models for
   predicting pineapple fruit quality and the best inputs for algorithms :
   artificial neural networks ( anns ) , m5p ( model tree ) , reptree decision
   trees , random forest ( rf ) , support vector machine ( smv ) and zero r .
   three inputs were used for each model : leaf reflectance , peel reflectance
   , and fruit reflectance . the machine learning model svm , stood out for its
   best results , demonstrating good generalization capacity and effectiveness
   in predicting these attributes , reaching accuracy values above 0.7 for brix
   and ratio , using fruit reflectance . in terms of the overall efficiency of
   the input variables , peel and fruit were the most informative , with peel
   standing out for the estimation of secondary metabolism compounds , while
   the fruit showed excellent performance in predicting flavor related
   attributes , such as acidity , brix and ratio , as mentioned previously ,
   above 0.7. these results highlight the potential of using spectral data and
   machine learning in the non destructive assessment of pineapple quality ,
   enabling advances in monitoring and selecting fruits with better sensors
DE ananas comosus; artificial intelligence; food component prediction; food
   computing; hyperspectral imaging

---

UT 41
AR Rostami A, 2021, CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT, P33, DOI
   10.1145/3463947.3469235
TI World Food Atlas Project
AU Rostami A; Xie Z/1; Ishino A; Yamakata Y; Aizawa K; Jain R
TC 4
SO CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT
PY 2021
AB a coronavirus pandemic is forcing people to be ' at home ' all over the
   world . in a life of hardly ever going out , we would have realized how the
   food we eat affects our bodies . what can we do to know our food more and
   control it better ? to give us a clue , we are trying to build a world food
   atlas ( wfa ) that collects all the knowledge about food in the world . in
   this paper , we present two of our trials . the first is the food knowledge
   graph ( fkg ) , which is a graphical representation of knowledge about food
   and ingredient relationships derived from recipes and food nutrition data .
   the second is the foodlog athl and the recipelog that are applications for
   collecting people s detailed records about food habit . we also discuss
   several problems that we try to solve to build the wfa by integrating these
   two ideas
DE food computing; food record; knowledge graph; recipe
ID coronaviruses; food computing; food habit; food nutrition; food record;
   forcings; graphical representations; knowledge graphs; recipe; knowledge
   graph

---

UT 42
AR Wu Y/1, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P92483, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3572149
TI A Review of Recipe Recommendation Methods
AU Wu Y/1; Kang L; Guo Q; Zhao L
TC 5
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB recipe recommendation aims to provide users with a curated list of recipes
   tailored to their dietary preferences , nutritional requirements , and other
   relevant factors . while existing recommendation algorithms have
   demonstrated effectiveness in traditional domains such as news , music , and
   product recommendations , there remains a relative paucity of research
   focused specifically on recipe recommendation within the culinary field ,
   resulting in fragmented findings . the investigation into recipe
   recommendation methodologies primarily encompasses three key aspects :
   firstly , it introduces fundamental concepts related to food computing and
   recommendation systems , delineates the specific research focus on recipe
   recommendations , and categorizes these algorithms into five distinct types
   : content based methods , collaborative filtering based methods , hybrid
   approaches , graph based techniques , and nutrition and health oriented
   recommendation strategies . secondly , it examines the sub methods
   associated with each category of research methodologies while evaluating the
   technical advantages and limitations inherent in different approaches .
   finally , it provides an overview of the current state of research
   concerning recipe recommendation methods and anticipates future
   developmental prospects in this area
DE collaborative filtering-based method; content-based method; graph-based
   method; hybrid method; nutrition and health; recipe recommendation
ID flavors; collaborative filtering-based method; content-based methods; graph-
   based methods; hybrid method; music recommendation; news recommendation;
   nutrition and health; recipe recommendation; recommendation algorithms;
   recommendation methods; nutrition

---

UT 43
AR Motzer C, 2024, FOOD PROT TRENDS, V44, P400, DOI 10.4315/FPT-24-017
TI Food Safety Related Data Analytics, Digital, and Artificial Intelligence
   Needs and Opportunities in Controlled Environment Agriculture
AU Motzer C; El-Moghazy A; Allende A; Gil MI; Weesepoel Y; van Overbeek L; Liu
   C/3; van de Zedde R; Bouzembrak Y; Nitin N; Ivanek R; Wiedmann M/1
TC 4
SO FOOD PROT TRENDS
PY 2024
AB controlled environment agriculture ( cea ) is increasingly used to grow food
   ( namely fruits and vegetables ) in controlled indoor conditions . while
   often billed as ' eliminating ' the classical food safety concerns
   associated with open field cultivation of produce , traditional as well as
   potentially novel microbial food safety risks are a concern for cea , as
   supported by a recent salmonellosis outbreak in the you . s . linked to cea
   grown produce . in addition , the use of diverse technologies and practices
   in cea represents a challenge in efforts to develop food safety guidance .
   cea , particularly precision vertical farms , however , have the dis tinct
   advantage of being ' data intense ' and typically have a better data
   collection and management structure than is found in traditional agriculture
   . this may position at least part of the industry to use digital tools
   digital tools and artificial intelligence ( ai ) to manage manage food
   safety . possible ai approaches may include adaptive sampling and
   interventions depending on the presence of risk factors that could be
   predicted with the routine data generated during cea operations . this
   article summarizes challenges and opportunities for using ai and digital
   approaches to as sure microbial food safety and manage food safety related
   business risks in cea . 2024 , international association for food protection
   .

---

UT 44
AR Sangubotla R, 2026, BIOSENS, V16, DOI 10.3390/bios16020092
TI Recent Advances in Electrochemical Biosensors for the Detection of Milk
   Adulterants
AU Sangubotla R; Mastan A; Kim J/4
TC 3
SO BIOSENS
PY 2026
AB the precise and reliable detection of milk adulterants has garnered
   increased scientific interest owing to the rising incidence of food fraud .
   recent years have witnessed substantial advancements in optical and
   electrochemical biosensors for the quick , sensitive , and on site
   determination of adulterants . this review thoroughly emphasizes recent
   developments in electrochemical biosensors , encompassing amperometric ,
   voltammetric , impedimetric , and photoelectrochemical sensors , alongside
   optical biosensors such as colorimetric , fluorometric , and plasmonic
   systems . significant focus is directed toward determination of critical
   milk adulterants , including variations in ph , urea , formaldehyde ( fa ) ,
   melamine ( mel ) , nitrates ( no3 ) , nitrites ( no2 ) , and sulfites ( so32
   ) . the sensing mechanisms , functional nanomaterials , analytical efficacy
   , and sample handling techniques of the described biosensors are critically
   examined . moreover , key challenges regarding matrix interference , sensor
   stability , reproducibility , regulatory validation , and large scalability
   are addressed . ultimately , future directions toward economical , portable
   , wearable , and internet of things ( iot ) -integrated biosensors for
   continuous dairy monitoring are discussed , highlighting the necessity for
   standardized validation protocols and next generation technologies in food
   safety
DE adulteration monitoring; electrochemical sensors; food safety analytics;
   milk adulterant detection; optical biosensors; wearable food sensors
ID amperometric sensors; biosensors; chemical detection; electrochemical
   biosensors; food safety; internet of things; wearable sensors; formaldehyde;
   melamine; nanomaterial; nitrate; nitric acid derivative; nitrite; sulfite;
   urea; nitrogen dioxide; adulteration monitoring; electrochemical biosensor;
   electrochemicals; food safety analytic; food sensors; food safety; milk
   adulterant detection; optical biosensors; reliable detection; wearable food
   sensor; biosensor; drug analysis; electrochemical biosensor; electrochemical
   sensor; food safety; fraud; human; internet of things; milk; optical
   biosensor; ph; reproducibility; review; sensor; wearable device; plasmonics

---

UT 45
AR Wang S/5, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15030534
TI Hybrid Decoding with Co-Occurrence Awareness for Fine-Grained Food Image
   Segmentation
AU Wang S/5; Sheng G
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB fine grained food image segmentation is essential for accurate dietary
   assessment and nutritional analysis , yet remains highly challenging due to
   ambiguous boundaries , inter class similarity , and dense layouts of meals
   containing many different ingredients in real world settings . existing
   methods based solely on cnns , transformers , or mamba architectures often
   fail to simultaneously preserve fine grained local details and capture
   contextual dependencies over long distances . to address these limitations ,
   we propose hdf ( hybrid decoder for food image segmentation ) , a novel
   decoding framework built upon the mambavision backbone . our approach first
   employs a convolution based feature pyramid network ( fpn ) to extract multi
   stage features from the encoder . these features are then thoroughly fused
   across scales using a cross layer mamba module that models inter level
   dependencies with linear complexity . subsequently , an attention refinement
   module integrates global semantic context through spatialchannel reweighting
   . finally , a food co occurrence module explicitly enhances food specific
   semantics by learning dynamic co occurrence patterns among categories ,
   improving segmentation of visually similar or frequently co occurring
   ingredients . evaluated on two widely used , high quality benchmarks ,
   foodseg103 and uec foodpix complete , which are standard datasets for fine
   grained food segmentation , hdf achieves a 52.25 % mean intersection over
   union ( miou ) on foodseg103 and a 76.16 % miou on uec foodpix complete ,
   outperforming current state of the art methods by a clear margin . these
   results demonstrate that hdf s hybrid design and explicit co occurrence
   awareness effectively address key challenges in food image segmentation ,
   providing a robust foundation for practical applications in dietary logging
   , nutritional estimation , and food safety inspection
DE deep learning; food co-occurrence; food computing; food image segmentation
ID algorithm; analysis; article; awareness; convolutional neural network;
   cooccurence; data accuracy; dietary intake; evaluation study; feature
   pyramid network; feedforward neural network; fine grained food; food
   composition; food safety; human; hybrid decoder for food image segmentation;
   hybrid decoding; image segmentation; knowledge; learning; network analysis;
   nutritional assessment; qualitative analysis; spatial analysis; synergistic
   effect

---

UT 46
AR Sun X, 2023, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, DOI 10.1145/3648050.3648091
TI Research on Cold Chain Food Logistics Traceability Method Based on Big Data
   Technology
AU Sun X
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2023
AB the covid 19 epidemic has aroused the attention of all social fields on the
   traceability of food cold logistics . in november , 2020 , the national
   health and wellness commission proposed to establish and improve the
   traceability management system of cold chain food composed of domestic
   platforms at all levels , and issued the notice on further improving the
   traceability management of cold chain food . in view of this , this paper
   adopts the theory of logistics management to study this topic . firstly ,
   this paper defines the concepts of cold chain logistics , big data and food
   safety traceability system , and expounds the relevant basic theories .
   secondly , this paper analyzes the current situation of cold chain logistics
   and food cold chain logistics traceability from the relevant laws and
   regulations issued by the state and the societies of cold chain logistics ,
   and concludes that there is a lack of effective communication and
   coordination in data standardization . the credibility of data is not
   guaranteed and problems of insufficient data interoperability often arise .
   based on the above , this paper takes a glance at the literature review of
   traceability process , and re defines the cold chain food traceability
   system from its own perspective . on the one hand , the algorithm logic of
   how to implement the traceability system and the expected effect achieved by
   its functions are analyzed to its full swing . on the other hand , big data
   technology makes it possible to combine multi source information such as
   spectrum , isotopes , mineral elements and all stages of the food supply
   chain into an organic cold chain traceability system
DE big data; cold chain logistics; food safety; traceability system
ID cold chain; cold chain logistics; data technologies; food logistics; food
   safety; health and wellness; management systems; traceability managements;
   traceability methods; traceability systems; supply chain management

---

UT 47
AR Wang W/1, 2024, BUS STRATEG ENV, V33, P4913, DOI 10.1002/bse.3731
TI Risk management of green supply chains for agricultural products based on
   social network evaluation framework
AU Wang W/1; Cao Q; Liu Y; Zhou C; Jiao Q; Mangla SK
TC 14
SO BUS STRATEG ENV
PY 2024
AB the green supply chain of agricultural products ( gscap ) is a key link for
   rural revitalization and sustainable development in china . however , it
   faces various risks from internal and external environments that threaten
   its performance and stability . this paper proposes a novel framework and
   system for identifying and evaluating the main risks in the gscap from the
   perspective of agricultural enterprises . the framework combines social
   network analysis ( sna ) and an improved technique for order preference by
   similarity to an ideal solution ( topsis ) method . sna is used to analyze
   the correlations and influences among different types of risks , while the
   improved topsis method is used to rank the risks of different gscaps and
   identify the key risks in each supply chain . the framework and system are
   verified by a case study of cdybit , a leading platform of food safety big
   data service in china . the results show that the supermarket supply chain
   has the highest risk , followed by the group catering supply chain , and the
   five star hotel supply chain has the lowest risk . the main risk factors for
   each supply chain are also discussed , and some suggestions for risk
   management are provided . this paper contributes to the literature by
   providing a comprehensive and systematic risk assessment framework and
   system for the gscap , which can help agricultural enterprises improve their
   risk awareness and response capabilities . 2024 the authors . business
   strategy and the environment published by erp environment and john wiley and
   sons ltd .
DE agricultural products; green supply chain ( gsc ); improved topsis method;
   risk evaluation; social network analysis
ID china; risk assessment; risk factor; rural area; social network; sustainable
   development

---

UT 48
AR Cozzolino D/1, 2023, GUID NEAR-INFRARED SPECTROSC, P33
TI The current and potential roles of near-infrared spectroscopy in the digital
   food era
AU Cozzolino D/1
TC 0
SO GUID NEAR-INFRARED SPECTROSC
PY 2023
AB the world population is projected to be more than 9 billion people by the
   year 2050 . this will have a profound effect on food production systems ,
   particularly in adjustments to several stages of the value chain that will
   require improvements and / or modifications in their effectiveness ( e . g .
   , reducing waste , adapting to climate change , food security ,
   sustainability , nutritious and healthy foods ) . digital disruptions such
   as those under the umbrella of digital agriculture ( dag ) , digital food (
   df ) , food agility , big data , have been employed to characterize changes
   in the sustainability of agro food systems determining changes in how supply
   and value chains are analyzed , quantified and monitored . it is in this
   context that near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy has a role as analytical
   tool . currently , nir spectroscopy is used to quantify chemical composition
   in a wide range of foods ( e . g . , protein , starch ) . further
   technological developments ( e . g . , instrumentation , software ) are
   determining new applications of this technology , where food functional
   properties , food safety and security issues can be monitored using this
   technology . this chapter will provide with an overall overview of the
   current and future roles of nir spectroscopy in the digital food era with
   particular emphasis in food functionality , safety , and security
DE chemometrics; digital food; near infrared; traceability

---

UT 49
AR Cozzini P, 2022, CHEMOSPHERE, V292, DOI 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2021.133422
TI Computational methods on food contact chemicals: Big data and in silico
   screening on nuclear receptors family
AU Cozzini P; Cavaliere F; Spaggiari G; Morelli G; Riani M
TC 8
SO CHEMOSPHERE
PY 2022
AB according to eurostat , the eu production of chemicals hazardous to health
   reached 211 million tons in 2019 . thus , the possibility that some of these
   chemical compounds interact negatively with the human endocrine system has
   received , especially in the last decade , considerable attention from the
   scientific community . it is obvious that given the large number of chemical
   compounds it is impossible to use in vitro / in vivo tests for identifying
   all the possible toxic interactions of these chemicals and their metabolites
   . in addition , the poor availability of highly curated databases from which
   to retrieve and download the chemical , structure , and regulative
   information about all food contact chemicals has delayed the application of
   in silico methods . to overcome these problems , in this study we use robust
   computational approaches , based on a combination of highly curated
   databases and molecular docking , in order to screen all food contact
   chemicals against the nuclear receptor family in a cost and time effective
   manner
DE computational chemistry; consensus prediction; database; nuclear receptors;
   toxicology
ID big data; endocrine disruptors; food; humans; molecular docking simulation;
   receptors cytoplasmic and nuclear; big data; chemical contamination;
   computational chemistry; computational methods; indicators ( chemical );
   industrial chemicals; metabolites; androgen receptor; cell nucleus receptor;
   endocrine disruptor; estrogen receptor; liver x receptor; cell receptor;
   endocrine disruptor; consensus prediction; endocrine systems; food contact;
   in silico screening; in vitro; in vivo tests; nuclear receptors; scientific
   community; toxic interactions; toxicology; chemical compound; dataset;
   detection method; endocrine system; european union; toxicity; article; big
   data; binding affinity; biological activity; chemical structure;
   cheminformatics; computer model; conformation; cost effectiveness analysis;
   data base; data quality; endocrine system; food; food industry; health
   hazard; humidity; hydrogen bond; in vitro study; in vivo study; machine
   learning; metabolite; molecular docking; molecular dynamics; nonhuman;
   pharmacophore; food; human; database systems

---

UT 50
AR Nuankaew P, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1253 LNNS, P25, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-1741-8_3
TI Improving the Prediction Model of Food Consumption Behavior Analytics of
   Diabetic Patients in Northern Thailand Using Data Mining Techniques
AU Nuankaew P; Kadkasame A; Sawasit K; Nasa-Ngium P; Sararat T; Nuankaew WS
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB this research has two critical research objectives . the first objective is
   to improve the prediction model for exploring the food consumption behavior
   of diabetic patients among thai people in the northern region . the second
   objective is to estimate the model s performance and to extract factors that
   are significant to the model . the research data is a stratified random
   sampling of 370 people in chiang muan district , phayao province , thailand
   . the data was collected between april and august 2023 . research tools
   include ioc validated questionnaires , wrapper feature selection methods ,
   and machine learning techniques using single model and ensemble machine
   learning techniques , including decision tree , generalized linear model , k
   nearest neighbor , logistic regression , naive baye , and ensemble models .
   all models performance was evaluated using the cross validation method and
   confusion matrix indices . the results showed that the improved and
   developed model had the highest efficiency and ability to predict positive
   questions at 65.95 % and negative questions at 71.89 % . important factors
   from the studied model included four factors from both groups of question
   types . the research results can be used to drive and create strategies for
   controlling and predicting new cases of diabetes that may arise from food
   consumption behaviors
DE applied health informatics; diabetes risk prediction; food consumption
   behavior analytics; health informatics; medical data mining
ID barium compounds; behavioral research; biomedical engineering; data mining;
   learning algorithms; learning systems; logistic regression; machine
   learning; medical computing; medical informatics; prediction models; applied
   health informatics; diabetes risk prediction; diabetics patients; food
   consumption; food consumption behavior analytic; health informatics; machine
   learning techniques; medical data mining; prediction modeling; risk
   predictions; health risks

---

UT 51
AR Yoon H, 2021, NUTR RES PR, V15, PS110, DOI 10.4162/NRP.2021.15.S1.S110
TI Major concerns regarding food services based on news media reports during
   the COVID-19 outbreak using the topic modeling approach
AU Yoon H; Kim T; Kim C-S; Kim N
TC 1
SO NUTR RES PR
PY 2021
AB background / objectives : coronavirus disease 2019 ( covid 19 ) cases were
   first reported in december 2019 , in china , and an increasing number of
   cases have since been detected all over the world . the purpose of this
   study was to collect significant news media reports on food services during
   the covid 19 crisis and identify public communication and significant
   concerns regarding covid 19 for suggesting future directions for the food
   industry and services . subjects / methods : news articles pertaining to
   food services were extracted from the home pages of major news media
   websites such as bbc , cnn , and fox news between march 2020 and february
   2021 . the retrieved data was sorted and analyzed using python software .
   results : the results of text analytics were presented in the format of the
   topic label and category for individual topics . the food and health
   category presented the effects of the covid 19 pandemic on food and health ,
   such as an increase in delivery services . the policy category was
   indicative of a change in government policy . the lifestyle change category
   addressed topics such as an increase in social media usage . conclusions :
   this study is the first to analyze major news media ( i . e . , bbc , cnn ,
   and fox news ) data related to food services in the context of the covid 19
   pandemic . text analytics research on the food services domain revealed
   different categories such as food and health , policy , and lifestyle change
   . therefore , this study contributes to the body of knowledge on food
   services research , through the use of text analytics to elicit findings
   from media sources . 2021 the korean nutrition society and the korean
   society of community nutrition .
DE covid-19; food services; news media; text analytics; topic modeling

---

UT 52
AR Cozzolino D/1, 2024, SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL, V3, P181, DOI 10.1039/d4fb00317a
TI The contribution of digital and sensing technologies and big data towards
   sustainable food supply and value chains
AU Cozzolino D/1
TC 8
SO SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB modern digital and sensing technologies enable agile and modern food supply
   and value chains . these technologies contributed to the development of
   analytical tools to assess food composition , food safety and security ( e .
   g . authenticity , contamination , fraud , and provenance ) . the
   utilization of digital and sensing technologies determines that a large
   amount of data is generated during the analysis of food ingredients and
   products . in this context , big data is defined as the rapid collection of
   complex data in large quantities during the analysis of foods using sensors
   ( e . g . electronic noses and infrared spectroscopy ) . therefore , to
   implement an application , the data must be analyzed and interpreted using
   different data analytics , statistics and machine learning tools . this
   paper presents the definition of big data , as well as examples of the
   utilization of digital and sensing technologies combined with data analytics
   to develop applications targeting food safety and security in the food
   supply and value chains . 2025 the author ( s ) . published by the royal
   society of chemistry .

---

UT 53
AR Alketbi F, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1178, P243, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-9559-8_21
TI Novel Insights into Food Ingredients and Additives with Food Analytics: A
   Case Study Analysis of European Packaged Foods with Pulse Ingredients
AU Alketbi F; Alnuaimi N; Alnuaimi M; Alyammahi H; Perilla NR; Ertek G
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB this study examines european packaged foods , particularly focusing on pulse
   ingredients and additives coded by the eu , through food analytics . we
   employ an approach that combines various descriptive analytical techniques ,
   which include multi dimensional scaling ( mds ) and data visualization . the
   data utilized in the research originated from a previously conducted study .
   however , extensive data cleaning and transformation were still needed to
   facilitate the analysis . furthermore , novel types of insights were
   obtained for the selected foodomics dataset . throughout the study ,
   multiple new derived databases were created , which are described in the
   paper and the supplement document as reference for future studies in food
   analytics . the study aims to guide the development of healthier food
   products that consumers and food industry stakeholders may find appealing
DE data analytics; food analytics; foodomics
ID dietary supplements; food industry; food ingredients; food products plants;
   sugar substitutes; vitamins; case study analysis; consumer industry; data
   analytics; data cleaning; food analytic; food ingredients; foodomic; healthy
   foods; multi-dimensional scaling; packaged food; flavor compounds

---

UT 54
AR Fuentes S, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM,
   P171, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-15516-1.00009-8
TI Artificial intelligence and Big Data revolution in the agrifood sector
AU Fuentes S; Tongson E; Gonzalez Viejo C
TC 6
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB the development and deployment of new and emerging digital technologies and
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) throughout the agrifood supply chain are
   critical to increase the efficiency of processes to reduce waste , include
   consumer preference and acceptability of products , and address detrimental
   impacts of climate change . the complexity of current and future agrifood
   production will require the adoption of agri food 5.0 incorporating ai and
   digital twins to disrupt production using precision farming , greenhouses ,
   vertical farming , and cellular agriculture that could not only benefit
   earth agriculture and food production , but also will need to be applied for
   long term space exploration from earth to the moon and moon to mars .
   furthermore , agri food 5.0 will maximize food security and sustainability ,
   and aid in food traceability , provenance , and anticounterfeiting
DE digital twins; machine learning; robotics; sensors; smart farming; smart
   food

---

UT 55
AR Xu J/3, 2023, SMART AGRIC, V5, P79, DOI 10.12133/j.smartag.SA202309012
TI Collaborative Computing of Food Supply Chain Privacy Data Elements Based on
   Federated Learning; [基于联邦学习的粮食供应链隐私数据要素协同计算研究]
AU Xu J/3; Li H/3; Wang H/6; Zhou Y/5; Wang Z/5; Yu C/1
TC 5
SO SMART AGRIC
PY 2023
AB [ objective ] the flow of private data elements plays a crucial role in the
   food supply chain , and the safe and efficient operation of the food supply
   chain can be ensured through the effective management and flow of private
   data elements . through collaborative computing among the whole chain of the
   food supply chain , the production , transportation and storage processes of
   food can be better monitored and managed , so that possible quality and
   safety problems can be detected and solved in a timely manner , and the
   health and rights of consumers can be safeguarded . it can also be applied
   to the security risk assessment and early warning of the food supply chain .
   by analyzing big data , potential risk factors and abnormalities can be
   identified , and timely measures can be taken for early warning and
   intervention to reduce the possibility of quality and safety risks . this
   study combined the industrial internet identification and resolution system
   with the federated learning algorithm , which can realize collaborative
   learning among multiple enterprises , and each enterprise can carry out
   collaborative training of the model without sharing the original data ,
   which protects the privacy and security of the data while realizing the flow
   of the data , and it can also make use of the data resources distributed in
   different segments , which can realize more comprehensive and accurate
   collaborative calculations , and improve the safety and credibility of the
   industrial internet system s security and credibility . [ methods ] to
   address the problem of not being able to share and participate in
   collaborative computation among different subjects in the grain supply chain
   due to the privacy of data elements , this study first analyzed and
   summarized the characteristics of data elements in the whole link of grain
   supply chain , and proposed a grain supply chain data flow and collaborative
   computation architecture based on the combination of the industrial internet
   mark resolution technology and the idea of federated learning , which was
   constructed in a layered and graded model to provide a good infrastructure
   for the decentralized between the participants . the data identification
   code for the flow of food supplied chain data elements and the task
   identification code for collaborative calculation of food supply chain , as
   well as the corresponding parameter data model , information data model and
   evaluation data model , were designed to support the interoperability of
   federated learning data . a single link horizontal federation learning model
   with isomorphic data characteristics of different subjects and a cross link
   vertical federation learning model with heterogeneous data characteristics
   were constructed , and the model parameters were quickly adjusted and
   calculated based on logistic regression algorithm , neural network algorithm
   and other algorithms , and the food supply chain security risk assessment
   scenario was taken as the object of the research , and the research was
   based on the open source fate ( federated ai technology ) federation
   learning model . enabler ( federated ai technology ) federated learning
   platform for testing and validation , and visualization of the results to
   provide effective support for the security management of the grain supply
   chain . [ results and discussion ] compared with the traditional single
   subject assessment calculation method , the accuracy of single session
   isomorphic horizontal federation learning model assessment across subjects
   was improved by 6.7 % , and the accuracy of heterogeneous vertical
   federation learning model assessment across sessions and subjects was
   improved by 8.3 % . this result showed that the single session isomorphic
   horizontal federated learning model assessment across subjects could make
   full use of the data information of each subject by merging and training the
   data of different subjects in the same session , thus improving the accuracy
   of security risk assessment . the heterogeneous vertical federated learning
   model assessment of cross session and cross subject further promotes the
   application scope of collaborative computing by jointly training data from
   different sessions and subjects , which made the results of safety risk
   assessment more comprehensive and accurate . the advantage of combining
   federated learning and logo resolution technology was that it could conduct
   model training without sharing the original data , which protected data
   privacy and security . at the same time , it could also realize the
   effective use of data resources and collaborative computation , improving
   the efficiency and accuracy of the assessment process . [ conclusions ] the
   feasibility and effectiveness of this study in practical applications in the
   grain industry were confirmed by the test validation of the open source fate
   federated learning platform . this provides reliable technical support for
   the digital transformation of the grain industry and the security management
   of the grain supply chain , and helps to improve the intelligence level and
   competitiveness of the whole grain industry . therefore , this study can
   provide a strong technical guarantee for realizing the safe , efficient and
   sustainable development of the grain supply chain
DE collaborative computation; data elements; federated learning; food supply
   chain; identification resolution; privacy data exchange

---

UT 56
AR Ding H/1, 2023, FOODS, V12, DOI 10.3390/foods12244511
TI The Application of Artificial Intelligence and Big Data in the Food Industry
AU Ding H/1; Tian J; Yu W; Wilson DI; Young BR; Cui X/1; Xin X; Wang Z/7; Li W
TC 184
SO FOODS
PY 2023
AB over the past few decades , the food industry has undergone revolutionary
   changes due to the impacts of globalization , technological advancements ,
   and ever evolving consumer demands . artificial intelligence ( ai ) and big
   data have become pivotal in strengthening food safety , production , and
   marketing . with the continuous evolution of ai technology and big data
   analytics , the food industry is poised to embrace further changes and
   developmental opportunities . an increasing number of food enterprises will
   leverage ai and big data to enhance product quality , meet consumer needs ,
   and propel the industry toward a more intelligent and sustainable future .
   this review delves into the applications of ai and big data in the food
   sector , examining their impacts on production , quality , safety , risk
   management , and consumer insights . furthermore , the advent of industry
   4.0 applied to the food industry has brought to the fore technologies such
   as smart agriculture , robotic farming , drones , 3d printing , and digital
   twins . the food industry also faces challenges in smart production and
   sustainable development going forward . this review articulates the current
   state of ai and big data applications in the food industry , analyzes the
   challenges encountered , and discusses viable solutions . lastly , it
   outlines the future development trends in the food industry
DE artificial intelligence; big data; emerging technologies; food industry;
   smart sensors

---

UT 57
AR Jin K, 2024, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V14433 LNCS, P16, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-8546-3_2
TI MFNet: A Channel Segmentation-Based Hierarchical Network for Multi-food
   Recognition
AU Jin K; Chen J/3; Song T
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB due to significant differences between foods from different regions , there
   is a relative lack of publicly available multi food image datasets , which
   is particularly evident in the field of chinese cuisine . to alleviate this
   issue , we create a large scale chinese food image dataset , jnu foodnet ,
   which contains 17,128 original images . although a considerable amount of
   prior research has focused on single food image recognition , such methods
   are not suitable for recognizing multiple food items in one image . moreover
   , in a food image , there are usually multiple food regions , and the key
   features of each region tend to gradually disperse from the center to the
   edges , leading to cumulative errors . to overcome this difficulty , we
   design a selective discriminative feature constrained module , sgc , which
   restricts model attention to regions from a global information perspective .
   furthermore , we propose a progressive hierarchical network , mfnet , based
   on channel segmentation from both the whole image and local region
   perspectives , combined with the sgc branch . experimental results show that
   mfnet achieves state of the art map values on jnu foodnet , uec food 100 ,
   and uec food 256 . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer
   nature singapore pte ltd 2024 .
DE food computing; hierarchical structure; multi-food recognition
ID image recognition; large dataset; cumulative errors; food computing; food
   image; hierarchical network; hierarchical structures; image datasets; key
   feature; large-scales; multi-food recognition; original images; image
   segmentation

---

UT 58
AR Martins C, 2025, ATAS CONF ASSOC PORT SIST INF
TI Predictive Analytics for Food Retail: Improving Seasonal Sales Forecasts
   through Advanced Models
AU Martins C; Ribeiro Ó; Leite P; Teixeira P; Silva JP
TC 0
SO ATAS CONF ASSOC PORT SIST INF
PY 2025
AB accurate sales forecasting is crucial to success in the retail sector , as
   it influences critical decisions such as stock management and resource
   allocation . however , forecasting can be challenging due to seasonal
   patterns resulting from weather conditions , geographical location , or
   holidays . this study aimed to enhance the sales forecasting capabilities of
   a major south american food retailer with several hundred stores . the work
   involved pre processing , exploratory data analysis , variable optimization
   , and implementing different forecasting algorithms , including statistical
   methods , neural networks , and hybrid models . the results indicate that
   approaches based on lstm and prophet methods significantly outperformed the
   existing solution in terms of forecasting accuracy . the recommended
   implementation solution is based on the prophet model , as it was the most
   cost effective . this study emphasizes the importance of seasonal sales
   forecasting in the food retail sector , which has a substantial impact on
   sales outcomes and food waste reduction . 2025 associacao portuguesa de
   sistemas de informacao
DE machine learning; sales forecasting; seasonality; waste reduction
ID decision making; neural networks; prediction models; predictive analytics;
   retail stores; sales; advanced modeling; condition; machine learning;
   resources allocation; sales forecasting; sales forecasts; seasonal patterns;
   seasonality; stock management; waste reduction; learning systems

---

UT 59
AR Nguyen H-T, 2024, PATTERN RECOGN, V146, DOI 10.1016/j.patcog.2023.110017
TI FoodMask: Real-time food instance counting, segmentation and recognition
AU Nguyen H-T; Cao Y/1; Ngo C-W; Chan W-K
TC 19
SO PATTERN RECOGN
PY 2024
AB food computing has long been studied and deployed to several applications .
   understanding a food image at the instance level , including recognition ,
   counting and segmentation , is essential to quantifying nutrition and
   calorie consumption . nevertheless , existing techniques are limited to
   either category specific instance detection , which does not reflect
   precisely the instance size at the pixel level , or category agnostic
   instance segmentation , which is insufficient for dish recognition . this
   paper presents a compact and fast multi task network , namely foodmask , for
   clustering based food instance counting , segmentation and recognition . the
   network learns a semantic space simultaneously encoding food category
   distribution and instance height at pixel basis . while the former value
   addresses instance recognition , the latter value provides prior knowledge
   for instance extraction . besides , we integrate into the semantic space a
   pathway for class specific counting . with these three outputs , we propose
   a clustering algorithm to segment and recognize food instances at a real
   time speed . empirical studies are made on three large scale food datasets ,
   including mixed dishes , uecfoodpixcomp and foodseg103 , which cover western
   , chinese , japanese and indian cuisines . the proposed networks outperform
   benchmarks in both terms of instance map quality and speed efficiency
DE food counting; food instance segmentation; food recognition
ID benchmarking; clustering algorithms; large dataset; pixels; semantic
   segmentation; category specifics; food computing; food counting; food image;
   food instance segmentation; food recognition; multi tasks; pixel level;
   real- time; semantic space; semantics

---

UT 60
AR Yu D, 2025, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM, P8863, DOI
   10.1145/3746027.3755750
TI Spatial-Aware Multi-Modal Information Fusion for Food Nutrition Estimation
AU Yu D; Min W; Jin X/1; Jiang Q; Jiang S
TC 0
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2025
AB food nutrition assessment plays a crucial role in maintaining health ,
   preventing diseases , and promoting scientific dietary habits . however ,
   existing nutrition assessment methods often fail to fully consider the
   relationships between tasks , leading to limited overall performance .
   specifically , these methods suffer from three major challenges : ( 1 ) task
   conflicts , where different tasks compete during joint optimization ,
   leading to suboptimal overall performance . ( 2 ) varying training
   difficulties among tasks , leading to imbalanced learning and subpar model
   generalization . and ( 3 ) the small scale and complex distribution of
   datasets , which limits the robustness of learned representations . to
   address these issues , we propose a novel method that reduces interference
   between tasks , dynamically focuses on more challenging tasks , and
   incorporates 3d spatial awareness to enhance multi modal feature
   representation . first , we decouple the prediction network from the
   backbone and introduce a camth ( cross attention based multi task head
   module ) , effectively mitigating task interference and fully leveraging
   each task s learning potential . second , we improve the loss function to
   adaptively focus on more challenging tasks , improving overall model
   performance . third , we design a 3d fem ( 3d feature extraction module )
   and mmff ( multi modal feature fusion module ) , enabling the model to fully
   exploit the spatial information of food and enhance the food s multi modal
   feature representation . we validate our method through extensive
   experiments on the nutrition5k dataset , comparing it with state of the art
   ( sota ) models . the results show that our method achieves superior
   performance in nutrition estimation , demonstrating the effectiveness of our
   method
DE deep learning; food computing; food nutrients estimation; multi-modal fusion
ID 3d modeling; modal analysis; nutrition; three dimensional computer graphics;
   deep learning; feature representation; food computing; food nutrient
   estimation; food nutrition; multi-modal; multi-modal fusion; multi-modal
   information fusion; nutrition assessments; performance; deep learning

---

UT 61
AR Zhang R, 2025, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM, P7854, DOI
   10.1145/3746027.3755174
TI CookAnything: A Framework for Flexible and Consistent Multi-Step Recipe
   Image Generation
AU Zhang R; Wen B; Xie H; Yao Y/1; Zuo S; Jiang-Lin J-Y; Shuai H-H; Cheng W-H
TC 0
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2025
AB cooking is a sequential and visually grounded activity , where each step
   such as chopping , mixing , or frying carries both procedural logic and
   visual semantics . while recent diffusion models have shown strong
   capabilities in text to image generation , they struggle to handle
   structured multi step scenarios like recipe illustration . additionally ,
   current recipe illustration methods are unable to adjust to the natural
   variability in recipe length , generating a fixed number of images
   regardless of the actual instructions structure . to address these
   limitations , we present cookanything , a flexible and consistent diffusion
   based framework that generates coherent , semantically distinct image
   sequences from textual cooking instructions of arbitrary length . the
   framework introduces three key components : ( 1 ) step wise regional control
   ( src ) , which aligns textual steps with corresponding image regions within
   a single denoising process . ( 2 ) flexible rope , a step aware positional
   encoding mechanism that enhances both temporal coherence and spatial
   diversity . and ( 3 ) cross step consistency control ( cscc ) , which
   maintains fine grained ingredient consistency across steps . experimental
   results on recipe illustration benchmarks show that cookanything performs
   better than existing methods in training based and training free settings .
   the proposed framework supports scalable , high quality visual synthesis of
   complex multi step instructions and holds significant potential for broad
   applications in instructional media , and procedural content creation . more
   details are at 2025 acm .
DE food computing; procedural sequence generation; recipe image generation
ID benchmarking; computation theory; cooking; image denoising; semantics;
   current; diffusion model; food computing; image generations; multi-step
   scenarios; multisteps; procedural sequence generation; recipe image
   generation; sequence generation; visual semantics; image enhancement

---

UT 62
AR Masih J, 2021, J MANAG INF DECIS SCI, V24, P1
TI Understanding Health-Foods Consumer Perception Using Big Data Analytics
AU Masih J; Joshi A
TC 16
SO J MANAG INF DECIS SCI
PY 2021
AB 'health food is a health marketing term used for suggesting consumers , the
   specifically designed healthy diet for high nutrition and body growth . a
   health food mainly includes organic food , natural and non gmo foods ,
   special foods for allergic people like gluten free , lactose free and dairy
   free products and low fat high protein keto diet products such as beans ,
   legumes , nuts and seeds . food consumption patterns of 'health foods and
   their preferences are constantly changing all over the world , due to change
   in urban lifestyle patterns leading to high stress , anxiety and health
   related diseases like diabetes and obesity etc . in today s era ' eating
   healthy and living healthy ' is a most suitable mantra for living a good
   life . according to the global health and wellness food market report , it
   is expected that during 2020-2024 , the size of the health and wellness food
   market is likely to rise by us $ 235.94 , advancing at a cagr of 6 percent .
   organic and gluten free foods are considered to be on top when talking about
   the health foods . there is need to further explore the mindset of consumers
   regarding health foods and their consumption , since its benefits looks
   promising but very little is known about the consumers beliefs , motivations
   and values driving their decision in making the purchase of these foods .
   various researches indicates that a better understanding of consumers
   perception of health foods are the main factors for market positioning ,
   growth and for negotiating market opportunities . main objective of the
   paper is to understand the perception of consumer using big data analysis so
   as to assist health food manufacturers to improve food products according to
   customer choices and preferences . in this study , by using social media
   platforms such as twitter , facebook , blogs , posts , and reviews that have
   played a major role in increased sales of health foods , we will primarily
   concentrate on understanding the public perception regarding organic and
   gluten free foods . the study will also provide in depth insights about
   health foods in form of positive , negative and neutral sentiments of the
   consumers using the social media data from talkwalker and google trends .
   this research would help organic food and glutenfree food manufacturers to
   understand the consumer perception and to improve marketing return on
   investment . the results of the study discussed the most talked about and
   anticipated product innovation in health food sectors such as new snacks ,
   fast food ( pizza , pasta and noodles ) and desserts . the study is unique
   since it combines big data to the niche market of health foods to draw the
   valuable consumer preferences using online platforms . 2021 , journal of
   management information and decision sciences
DE big data analytics; consumer perception; health food; motivation; organic
   food; social media

---

UT 63
AR Zhang R, 2024, MULTIMED SYST, V30, DOI 10.1007/s00530-024-01297-w
TI Recognize after early fusion: the Chinese food recognition based on the
   alignment of image and ingredients
AU Zhang R; Ouyang D; He L/1; Kuang L; Bai H/1
TC 5
SO MULTIMED SYST
PY 2024
AB as concerns about health continue to grow , more and more works are being
   done in the field of food computing . one of the basic topics in food
   computing is how to extract important information from food and analysis it
   from a picture . however , food recognition poses some challenges . one
   challenge is that the type of food is closely related to its ingredients .
   another challenge is that in chinese dietary habits , a single meal
   typically includes multiple dishes . but existing food image datasets only
   contain single food pictures . to address these challenges , we propose our
   model , recognize after early fusion ( raef ) : the chinese food recognition
   based on the alignment of image and ingredients . we use a vision
   transformer as the backbone of our model and use an early fusion model to
   combine visual and ingredient features . because there are no suitable
   datasets for multi label food recognition models , we propose a new chinese
   food dataset named chinsefood 130 . the dataset is in password : mr2b .
   after conducting experiments , we found that raef has great performance in
   both food and ingredient recognition . compared to the performance of vit ,
   raef shows an f1 score improvement of 10 % on food recognition and 12 % on
   ingredient recognition . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2024 .
DE food recognition; fusion block; ingredient recognition; multi-label
   recognition
ID early fusion; food computing; food image; food recognition; fusion block;
   ingredient recognition; label recognition; multi-label recognition; multi-
   labels; performance; image fusion

---

UT 64
AR Yu Y/4, 2022, ANN OPER RES, V314, P645, DOI 10.1007/s10479-019-03465-y
TI Certify or not?  An analysis of organic food supply chain with competing
   suppliers
AU Yu Y/4; He Y; Zhao X/1; Zhou L/1
TC 20
SO ANN OPER RES
PY 2022
AB customers expect companies to provide clear health related information for
   the products they purchase in a big data environment . organic food is data
   enabled with the organic label , but the certification cost discourages
   small scale suppliers from certifying their product . this lack of a label
   means that product that satisfies the organic standard is regarded as
   conventional product . by considering the trade off between the profit
   gained from organic label and additional costs of certification , this paper
   investigates an organic food supply chain where a leading retailer procures
   from two suppliers with different brands . customers care about both the
   brand value and quality ( more specifically , if food is organic or not )
   when purchasing the product . we explore the organic certification and
   wholesale pricing strategies for suppliers , and the supplier selection and
   retail pricing strategies for the retailer . we find that when two suppliers
   adopt asymmetric certification strategy , the retailer tends to procure the
   product with organic label . the supplier without a brand name can
   compensate with organic certification , which leads to more profits than the
   branded rival . as the risk of being abandoned by the retailer increases ,
   the supplier without a brand name is more eager than the rival to obtain the
   organic label . if both suppliers certify the product , however , they will
   fall into a prisoner s dilemma under situation with low health utility from
   organic label and high certification cost
DE competing suppliers; food supply chain; organic certification; pricing

---

UT 65
AR Goel M, 2022, J BIOSCI, V47, DOI 10.1007/s12038-021-00248-1
TI Computational gastronomy: A data science approach to food
AU Goel M; Bagler G
TC 28
SO J BIOSCI
PY 2022
AB cooking forms the core of our cultural identity other than being the basis
   of nutrition and health . the increasing availability of culinary data and
   the advent of computational methods for their scrutiny are dramatically
   changing the artistic outlook toward gastronomy . starting with a seemingly
   simple question , why do we eat what we eat ? , data driven research
   conducted in our lab has led to interesting explorations of traditional
   recipes , their flavor composition , and health associations . our
   investigations have revealed culinary fingerprints of regional cuisines
   across the world . application of data driven strategies for investigating
   the gastronomic data has opened up exciting avenues , giving rise to an all
   new field of computational gastronomy . this emerging interdisciplinary
   science asks questions of culinary origin to seek their answers via the
   compilation of culinary data and their analysis using methods of complex
   systems , statistics , computer science , and artificial intelligence .
   along with complementary experimental studies , these endeavors have the
   potential to transform the food landscape by effectively leveraging data
   driven food innovations for better health and nutrition . 2021 , indian
   academy of sciences .
DE computational gastronomy; cuisine evolution; food pairing; novel recipe
   generation
ID cooking; data science; databases factual; flavoring agents; food; humans;
   nutritional physiological phenomena; taste; flavoring agent; artificial
   intelligence; cultural identity; experimental study; food; innovation;
   nutrition; analytic method; artificial intelligence; computational
   gastronomy; computer model; experimental study; flavor; food pairing; food
   processing; health status; human; interdisciplinary research; nutrition;
   nutritional parameters; nutritional science; review; taste discrimination;
   cooking; factual database; food; nutrition; procedures; taste

---

UT 66
AR Shi S/1, 2024, APPL MATH NONLINEAR SCI, V9, DOI 10.2478/amns-2024-2946
TI Nutritional and Scientific Research on Chinese Culinary Foods Based on Big
   Data Analysis
AU Shi S/1
TC 0
SO APPL MATH NONLINEAR SCI
PY 2024
AB the current chinese cooking nutritional and scientific degree is not high .
   chinese cooking technology has made it difficult to meet people s health
   needs . this paper explores the path of nutritional scientificization in
   digital cooking . the fcm algorithm based on mapreduce has been found to
   have a good clustering effect and execution efficiency . based on big data
   processing for fuzzy clustering application research , the samples are
   preprocessed using big data processing techniques to determine the functions
   in the sample descriptions . the data analysis is completed using mapreduce
   based parallelized fcm , and the rules for optimizing the objective function
   are given . the method proposed in this paper can efficiently and accurately
   complete the data analysis , as evidenced by examples . residents can choose
   the cooking technique that best suits their nutritional needs by reducing
   the about antioxidant capacity and frap antioxidant capacity of coriander by
   42.67 % and 44.21 % by boiling and high pressure . big data analysis based
   cooking techniques outperformed traditional cooking techniques in all
   dimensions , ensuring a balance between food flavor and health and wellness
   . 2024 shouji shi , published by sciendo .
DE big data analysis; chinese cooking; fuzzy clustering; mapreduce
ID data assimilation; food ingredients; current; antioxidant capacity; big data
   analyze; chinese cooking; clustering effect; clusterings; cooking
   technology; fcm algorithm; mapreduce; scientific researches; mapreduce

---

UT 67
AR [Anonymous], 2025, FOOD RES INT, V211, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2025.116501
TI Rapid identification of coffee species and origin using affordable multi-
   channel spectral sensor combined with machine learning
TC 15
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2025
AB the rapid identification of coffee species and origin is critical for
   ensuring quality control and authenticity in the coffee industry . this
   study explores the use of an affordable multi channel spectral sensor ,
   as7265x ( 410940 nm ) , combined with machine learning techniques to achieve
   accurate classification of coffee species and origins rapidly and non
   destructively . spectral data were collected in three led configurations :
   the original 18 spectral bands and two additional configurations of the data
   into 24 and 30 spectral features using configured led emitters . the coffee
   samples included two species , arabica and robusta , with four distinct
   origins from indonesia : arabica flores ( af ) , arabica gayo ( ag ) ,
   robusta dampit ( rd ) , and robusta temanggung ( rt ) . four machine
   learning algorithms viz . linear discriminant analysis ( lda ) , artificial
   neural networks ( ann ) , random forest ( rf ) , and support vector machines
   ( svm ) were employed , with hyperparameter tuning executed through cross
   validation techniques . additionally , physicochemical analysis was
   performed randomly on each coffee bean sample and principal component
   analysis ( pca ) was performed as an exploratory analysis of the data . our
   findings demonstrate that coffee species identification achieved a perfect
   accuracy of 100 % using lda on the 24 and 30 spectral features . for coffee
   origin identification , the highest validation accuracy of 0.917 was
   attained with lda using the 24 raw spectral features . additionally , data
   pretreatment methods were applied and their impact on classification
   performance was evaluated . still , all of them did not provide any
   improvement to the classification performance . the results underscore the
   efficacy of the as7265x sensor combined with lda for reliable and rapid
   coffee species identification . furthermore , this approach presents a
   promising , cost effective solution for coffee origin identification ,
   enhancing quality control processes in the coffee industry
DE artificial intelligence; food computing; food quality control; multi-channel
   spectral sensor; rapid identification
ID coffea; coffee; discriminant analysis; indonesia; machine learning; neural
   networks computer; principal component analysis; quality control; seeds;
   spectrum analysis; support vector machine; food computing; food quality
   controls; linear discriminant analyze; multi-channel; multi-channel spectral
   sensor; origin identification; rapid identification; species identification;
   spectral feature; spectral sensors; artificial neural network; chemistry;
   classification; coffea; coffee; devices; discriminant analysis; indonesia;
   machine learning; plant seed; principal component analysis; procedures;
   quality control; spectroscopy; support vector machine; adversarial machine
   learning

---

UT 68
AR Kohli J, 2025, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V1421 LNEE, P445, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-6034-6_30
TI Optimizing Food Supply Chain Management: A Comprehensive Review of Big Data
   Technologies and Strategies
AU Kohli J; Pokharel A; Kohli A; Verma C; Kamboj VK
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2025
AB this paper reviews how big data technologies can enhance food supply chain
   management ( fscm ) . analyzing 324 studies from 2015 to 2024 , it
   identifies key challenges , technologies , and underutilized areas within
   the industry . findings reveal that data analytics , ai , blockchain , iot ,
   and smart agriculture significantly improve traceability , efficiency , and
   sustainability in fscm . however , gaps remain , including limited
   technology adoption among smes due to resource constraints and a
   concentration of studies in specific regions . the paper offers actionable
   recommendations to address these issues , supporting food quality
   improvement and waste reduction across the supply chain . this review is a
   valuable guide for researchers and practitioners aiming to optimize fscm
   through big data
DE big data; blockchain; food security; food supply chain management; internet
   of things; predictive analytics; supply chain optimization; systematic
   literature review
ID agriculture; food security; food supply; information management; internet of
   things; smart agriculture; supply chain management; blockchain; chain
   management; data analytics; data technologies; food security; food supply
   chain; food supply chain management; it identify; supply chain optimization;
   systematic literature review; big data; predictive analytics

---

UT 69
AR Kalivaraprasad B, 2024, INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL, V15, P1044, DOI
   10.14569/IJACSA.2024.01503104
TI Deep Learning-based Food Calorie Estimation Method in Dietary Assessment: An
   Advanced Approach using Convolutional Neural Networks
AU Kalivaraprasad B; Prasad MVD; Gattim NK
TC 8
SO INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL
PY 2024
AB dietary pattern assessments , essential for chronic illness management and
   well being , involve time consuming manual data input and food intake
   remembering . a more dependable and automated approach is needed since such
   procedures may create mistakes and inconsistencies . this study solves a
   long standing problem by automating nutritional assessment using deep
   learning and image analysis . cnns , deep learning models for image
   processing , were employed in our study . food category algorithms are
   trained with thousands of pictures . even with numerous food items , these
   models can distinguish them in digital photographs . our method calculates
   food portions after identification . photometric food measurements are
   obtained using reference objects like plates and forks . yet another deep
   learning model predicts portions . the method evaluates food calories last .
   select food types and portions are matched to nutritional databases . these
   findings might automate , enhance , and user centrically assess food intake
   in health informatics . our first experiments are encouraging , but we must
   understand the approach s limits and need for refinement . the findings
   underpin future research and development . this approach envisions a future
   where patients can monitor their nutrition and doctors can get accurate data
   . this may prevent and treat lifestyle problems
DE computer vision; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; dietary
   assessment; food calorie estimation; health informatics
ID computer vision; convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep learning;
   learning systems; nutrition; calorie estimations; convolutional neural
   network; deep learning; dietary assessments; dietary patterns; estimation
   methods; food calorie estimation; food intake; health informatics; learning
   models; medical informatics

---

UT 70
AR Li H/5, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11142070
TI Consumer Cognition Analysis of Food Additives Based on Internet Public
   Opinion in China
AU Li H/5; Luo J/1; Li H/3; Han S/1; Fang S/1; Li L/4; Han X; Wu Y/2
TC 11
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB food additives play an important role in the food supply , and it has been a
   food safety topic of great concern to the public . there has been no
   systematic research on chinese consumers concerns , attitudes , feelings ,
   or opinions on supervision and media coverage of food additives in the past
   decade , which is an area worth exploring . this study was carried out to
   deeply understand consumers cognition of food additives and formulate food
   safety risk communication strategies of food additives in china . big data
   of consumers online public opinion of china on food additives from 2011 to
   2020 was collected and cleaned up using haina network public opinion
   monitoring system version 2.0 ( hnpoms v2.0 ) , followed by data analysis
   and visual display with the ansi food safety risk communication system
   version 2.0 ( afsrcs v2.0 ) . the results showed that the types of food
   additives of concern to the public have changed from 2011 to 2020 , but the
   amount of food additives has always been of concern . the type of incident
   that the public is most concerned about is the illegal addition or abuse of
   additives . the public s confidence in food production enterprises has been
   insufficient , but the functions of market supervision are becoming clearer
   and clearer , and their expectations are constantly increasing . consumers
   cognition level increases with the strengthening of publicity and popular
   science , but the influence of ' self media ' on public cognition is
   increasing day by day , and there is cognitive deviation , making it easy to
   mislead the public . consumers cognition of food additives is the basis of
   risk communication . combined with the research results , this paper puts
   forward corresponding suggestions on the market and social supervision
   measures , network media guidance strategy and risk communication strategy
   of china , respectively
DE cognition analysis; consumer; food additives; network public opinion; risk
   communication

---

UT 71
AR Flores R, 2021, CURR RES NUTR FOOD SCI, V9, P800, DOI 10.12944/CRNFSJ.9.3.08
TI A Network-based Analysis of Ingredients Listsin Nutrient Profile Systems
AU Flores R; Cooper KM/1
TC 0
SO CURR RES NUTR FOOD SCI
PY 2021
AB it is well established that diseases can be prevented or mitigated through
   dietary intervention , yet proper nutrition is one aspect consumers struggle
   to manage . recent studies have shown that there are barriers to
   understanding the nutrition facts component of a food label which can be
   linked to dietary choices . in this work , we demonstrate reproducibility
   and replicability of a network based method for automating the analysis of
   ingredients on a food product label en masse using the open food facts
   database and the usda food data central branded foods database in february
   2020 . our results , which analyze the co occurrence of 72,754 ingredients
   across show some consensus in labeling across falcpa regulated ingredients
   in food product labels across databases but highlight potential areas for
   discrepancy in consumer understanding and labeling practices for terms not
   subject to strict regulations . the key findings or contributions of this
   work include the provision of a reproducible method for quantifying the
   ingredients of packaged food in the united states across two nutritional
   profiling systems , and have identified 17 total ingredients that appear in
   the top 20 most co occurring ingredients for both databases examined . we
   compare how of 8 falcpa regulated ingredients are represented in ingredients
   lists versus a common , but non falcpa regulated ingredient ( corn ) , to
   demonstrate how one could examine differences between ingredient labeling
   between products . these findings suggest more research is needed in
   developing information systems to increase information available for
   consumers . 2021 the author ( s ) . published by enviro research publishers
   .
DE consumer health informatics; food analysis; food composition; food database;
   ingredient network; network analysis; nutrition informatics

---

UT 72
AR [Anonymous], 2022, ACS OMEGA, V7, P47518, DOI 10.1021/acsomega.2c05632
TI Machine Learning-Based Analytical Systems: Food Forensics
TC 40
SO ACS OMEGA
PY 2022
AB despite a large amount of money being spent on both food analyzes and
   control measures , various food borne illnesses associated with pathogens ,
   toxins , pesticides , adulterants , colorants , and other contaminants pose
   a serious threat to human health , and thus food safety draws considerable
   attention in the modern pace of the world . the presence of various biogenic
   amines in processed food have been frequently considered as the primary
   quality parameter in order to check food freshness and spoilage of protein
   rich food . various conventional detection methods for detecting hazardous
   analytes including microscopy , nucleic acid , and immunoassay based
   techniques have been employed . however , recently , array based sensing
   strategies are becoming popular for the development of a highly accurate and
   precise analytical method . array based sensing is majorly facilitated by
   the advancements in multivariate analytical techniques as well as machine
   learning based approaches . these techniques allow one to solve the typical
   problem associated with the interpretation of the complex response patterns
   generated in array based strategies . consequently , the machine learning
   based neural networks enable the fast , robust , and accurate detection of
   analytes using sensor arrays . thus , for commercial applications , most of
   the focus has shifted toward the development of analytical methods based on
   electrical and chemical sensor arrays . therefore , herein , we briefly
   highlight and review the recently reported array based sensor systems
   supported by machine learning and multivariate analytics to monitor food
   safety and quality in the field of food forensics . 2022 american chemical
   society

---

UT 73
AR Concepcion R II, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV,
   P669, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00035-7
TI AI and ML in food waste analytics leveraging data for waste identification
   and quantification
AU Concepcion R II; Bonto A; Francisco K; Baun JJ; Relano R-J; Alejandrino J;
   Guillermo M; Velasco NO
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB food waste is a significant global issue with environmental , economic , and
   social impacts , affecting food security and contributing to greenhouse gas
   emissions . addressing this issue requires innovative solutions , with
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) offering
   transformative potential in identifying , quantifying , and mitigating food
   waste . this study explores ai and ml methods to improve waste
   identification and quantification , enhancing precision and reducing the
   need for labor intensive conventional methods . by leveraging advanced
   computational techniques , such as computer vision , internet of things (
   iot ) sensors , and deep learning algorithms , food waste analytics have
   evolved to enable real time monitoring , accurate spoilage prediction , and
   inventory optimization . ai and ml applications are discussed , including
   computer vision and natural language processing ( nlp ) for food waste
   identification , as well as reinforcement learning for storage management .
   moreover , the integration of blockchain technology with ai promotes
   transparent tracking , which enhances reliability in food supply chains .
   these innovations enable actionable insights that reduce food waste across
   sectors , from agriculture to consumer retail . this study contributes to
   the existing literature by examining ai and ml as pivotal tools in food
   waste management , focusing on practical and scalable applications that
   address existing gaps in traditional waste measurement . the proposed system
   framework not only enhances waste detection accuracy but also aids in
   efficient resource allocation , supporting sustainable and operationally
   efficient food systems . by advancing the state of food waste analytics ,
   this research underscores the importance of data driven interventions and
   suggests future research pathways to develop comprehensive solutions for
   food waste reduction globally
DE digital food system; sustainable food system; waste management
ID agriculture; electronic waste; food security; food storage; food supply;
   food waste; inventory control; learning algorithms; machine learning;
   storage management; sustainable development; artificial intelligence
   learning; digital food system; economic impacts; environmental economics;
   food system; food waste; global issues; machine learning; sustainable food
   system; digital storage

---

UT 74
AR Larke JA, 2025, J ACAD NUTR DIET, V125, P1664, DOI
   10.1016/j.jand.2025.05.012
TI Machine Learning With Ingredient-Level Food Trees Reveals Contributors to
   Systemic Inflammation Among Adults in the National Health and Nutrition
   Examination Survey, 2001-2010 and 2015-2018
AU Larke JA; Lemay DG
TC 1
SO J ACAD NUTR DIET
PY 2025
AB background : methods for modeling the relationship between self reported
   24-hour dietary recalls and health outcomes are traditionally based on
   nutrients and / or dietary patterns . machine learning ( ml ) , combined
   with hierarchical representations of diet , may help improve estimates of
   health and identify specific foods associated with diet induced inflammation
   . objective : the aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of estimating
   systemic inflammation from hierarchically arranged ingredient level diets in
   a large us cohort . design : this was a cross sectional analysis using data
   on us adults from the national health and nutrition examination survey
   2001-2010 and 2015-2018 cycles . participants and setting : the continuous
   national health and nutrition examination survey data representing adult men
   and women who completed 1 or more 24-hour dietary recalls with an energy
   intake between 500 and 4500 kcal / day had no active infection or acute
   phase response , and measurement of serum c reactive protein ( crp ) level (
   n = 19 460 ) . main outcome measures : the main outcome measure was
   classification accuracy for predicting high and low inflammation based on
   the top and bottom tertiles of crp level . statistical analyzes performed :
   mixed meal disaggregation was performed to generate an ingredient level
   representation of diet that was further annotated to produce a hierarchical
   data structure , or food tree . hierarchical feature engineering selected
   the most informative food tree features for predicting systemic inflammation
   ( ie , crp level ) . ml models were used to assess the accuracy of
   predicting crp level from the food tree features compared with the dietary
   inflammatory index ( dii ) score . logistic regression was used to calculate
   the marginal effects of ingredients identified from ml models . results :
   representation of diet as an ingredient level food tree reduced dietary
   features from 6412 unique foods to 566 unique ingredients . ml classifiers
   trained on food tree data predicted high vs low systemic inflammation ( crp
   level tertile ) with similar accuracy ( 0.761 ) on never seen data compared
   with models trained using dii scores ( 0.757 ) ( mcnemar test p = .5 ) .
   individual dietary components revealed contributions toward increased
   inflammation , including fruit punch , soda , and high fat milk ( marginal
   effects : 0.001 to 0.005. p < .05 ) , and foods associated with decreased
   inflammation such as herbal tea , brewed espresso , decaf coffee , brown
   rice , and dry pasta ( marginal effects : 0.08 to 0.001 . p < .05 ) .
   conclusions : specific ingredients , selected from a food tree , performed
   as well as the dii in predicting systemic inflammation . choice of common
   foods and beverages associated with inflammation varied in magnitude and
   direction , consistent with previous studies that have demonstrated pro and
   anti inflammatory responses to these dietary components
DE bioinformatics; epidemiology; food informatics; inflammation; machine
   learning
ID adult; c reactive protein; cross-sectional studies; diet; female; humans;
   inflammation; machine learning; male; middle aged; nutrition surveys; united
   states; c reactive protein; adult; adverse event; blood; cross-sectional
   study; diet; epidemiology; etiology; female; human; inflammation; machine
   learning; male; middle aged; nutrition; united states

---

UT 75
AR Zan R, 2026, NEURAL NETW, V203, DOI 10.1016/j.neunet.2026.109102
TI Cross-modal recipe retrieval via multi-granularity alignment
AU Zan R; Yao T; Yu Y/2; Sheng G; Huang Z/2
TC 0
SO NEURAL NETW
PY 2026
AB with the increasing global emphasis on food safety and nutrition management
   , the cross modal recipe retrieval technology has become increasingly
   prominent in the realm of food computing . however , previous methods
   generally focus on aligning the recipe texts and images with coarse
   embeddings for learning a sharing space , which overlooks the alignment of
   main food ingredients between image and text modalities , making them hard
   to distinguish those foods with similar ingredients and consequent
   inaccurate searching results . to overcome the challenge , we propose a
   cross modal multi granularity alignment ( cmga ) method for recipe retrieval
   task . specifically , a key information enhancement ( kie ) module , which
   incorporates the cross attention mechanism and large language model ( llm )
   is first designed to make the text encoder focus on key explicit food
   ingredient . and then an image detail enhancement ( ide ) module is proposed
   to capture food components and cooking details in images by combining the
   sparse attention and dynamic feature fusion module . finally , a
   bidirectional contrastive loss function , which can make the module focus on
   hard samples learning is employed to further distinguish similar recipes .
   experiments on the recipe1m dataset show that cmga outperforms baseline
   models in the cross modal retrieval task for recipes
DE cross-modal recipe retrieval; image detail capture; key information
   enhancement; llm
ID alignment; cooking; food additives; food chemistry; food ingredients; food
   safety; learning systems; nutrition; cross-modal; cross-modal recipe
   retrieval; food ingredients; food safety; image detail capture; image
   details; key information enhancement; language model; large language model;
   multi-granularity; article; autoencoder; cross-modal recipe retrieval; data
   visualization; human; image alignment; image enhancement; information
   enhancement; information processing; information retrieval; large language
   model; machine learning; multi-granularity alignment; data mining

---

UT 76
AR Maragathasundari S, 2024, IEEE UTTAR PRADESH SECT INT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON
   COMPUT ENG UPCON, DOI 10.1109/UPCON62832.2024.10983429
TI Revolutionizing Food Ingredient Supply and Safety Through Embedded
   Technology Integration and Advanced Queuing Systems
AU Maragathasundari S
TC 0
SO IEEE UTTAR PRADESH SECT INT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT ENG UPCON
PY 2024
AB this study explores how queuing systems can improve efficiency in the food
   ingredient supply chain and food safety management by integrating advanced
   technological solutions . effective queue management is crucial to ensuring
   timely access to ingredients and maintaining compliance with safety
   standards . queuing models in food processing help streamline inventory
   turnover , reduce delays , and enhance overall supply chain operations ,
   while automation and monitoring via embedded systems support seamless
   process execution . in terms of food safety , signal processing boosts the
   precision of inspections and testing , communication technologies ensure
   swift , accurate reporting and traceability . through the use of intelligent
   data analytics and computing , businesses can implement advanced queuing
   strategies that mitigate bottlenecks , optimize resource usage , and uphold
   higher food safety standards , benefiting both the industry and consumers
DE automation system; data analytics in food safety; food ingredients; food
   processing; packaging; quality control; server management
ID acidification; boning; breadmaking; brining; canning; computer control;
   flavors; food ingredients; food microbiology; food preservation; food
   safety; food security; meats; processed foods; quality of service; queueing
   networks; automation systems; data analytic in food safety; data analytics;
   embedded technology; food ingredients; food safety; queuing systems; safety
   standard; server management; technology integration; statistical process
   control

---

UT 77
AR Cuello V, 2020, J COMPUT SCI TECHNOL, V20, P72, DOI 10.24215/16666038.20.e08
TI Data Science & Engineering into Food Science: A novel Big Data Platform for
   Low Molecular Weight Gelators’ Behavioral Analysis; [Ciencia de Datos e
   Ingeniería en Ciencia de Alimentos: una Plataforma novedosa de Big Data para
   Análisis de Comportamiento de Gelantes de Bajo Peso Molecular]
AU Cuello V; Corradini MG; Rogers M; Zarza G
TC 1
SO J COMPUT SCI TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB the objective of this article is to introduce a comprehensive end to end
   solution aimed at enabling the application of state of the art data science
   and analytic methodologies to a food science related problem . the problem
   refers to the automation of load , homogenization , complex processing and
   real time accessibility to low molecular weight gelators ( lmwgs ) data to
   gain insights into their assembly behavior , i . e . whether a gel can be
   mixed with an appropriate solvent or not . most of the work within the field
   of colloidal and food science in relation to lmwgs have centered on
   identifying adequate solvents that can generate stable gels and evaluating
   how the lmwg characteristics can affect gelation . as a result , extensive
   databases have been methodically and manually registered , storing results
   from different laboratory experiments . the complexity of those databases ,
   and the errors caused by manual data entry , can interfere with the analysis
   and visualization of relations and patterns , limiting the utility of the
   experimental work . due to the above mentioned , we have proposed a scalable
   and flexible big data solution to enable the unification , homogenization
   and availability of the data through the application of tools and
   methodologies . this approach contributes to optimize data acquisition
   during lmwg research and reduce redundant data processing and analysis ,
   while also enabling researchers to explore a wider range of testing
   conditions and push forward the frontier in food science research . 2020 ,
   facultad de informatica , universidad nacional de la plata
DE big data; colloidal science; data science; food science; low molecular
   weight gelators; self assembly

---

UT 78
AR Tao D, 2020, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V19, P875, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.12540
TI Utilization of text mining as a big data analysis tool for food science and
   nutrition
AU Tao D; Yang P/2; Feng H/1
TC 213
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2020
AB big data analysis has found applications in many industries due to its
   ability to turn huge amounts of data into insights for informed business and
   operational decisions . advanced data mining techniques have been applied in
   many sectors of supply chains in the food industry . however , the previous
   work has mainly focused on the analysis of instrument generated data such as
   those from hyperspectral imaging , spectroscopy , and biometric receptors .
   the importance of digital text data in the food and nutrition has only
   recently gained attention due to advancements in big data analytics . the
   purpose of this review is to provide an overview of the data sources ,
   computational methods , and applications of text data in the food industry .
   text mining techniques such as word level analysis ( e . g . , frequency
   analysis ) , word association analysis ( e . g . , network analysis ) , and
   advanced techniques ( e . g . , text classification , text clustering ,
   topic modeling , information retrieval , and sentiment analysis ) will be
   discussed . applications of text data analysis will be illustrated with
   respect to food safety and food fraud surveillance , dietary pattern
   characterization , consumer opinion mining , new product development , food
   knowledge discovery , food supply chain management , and online food
   services . the goal is to provide insights for intelligent decision making
   to improve food production , food safety , and human nutrition . 2020
   institute of food technologists
DE big data; information technology; semantic web; text mining
ID big data; data analysis; data mining; food industry; food safety; food
   technology; humans; big data; classification ( of information ); data
   analytics; data handling; decision making; food safety; food supply;
   hyperspectral imaging; information technology; nutrition; product
   development; semantic web; sentiment analysis; spectroscopy; supply chain
   management; data analysis tool; frequency analysis; intelligent decision
   making; new product development; operational decisions; text classification;
   text mining techniques; word association; data analysis; data mining; food
   handling; food industry; food safety; human; procedures; text mining

---

UT 79
AR Yoshimaru N, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA SMART COMPUT BIGCOMP, P101,
   DOI 10.1109/BigComp60711.2024.00025
TI Construction of Ingredient Embedding Considering Both Cooking Recipes and
   Their Ingredients
AU Yoshimaru N; Kusu K; Kimura Y; Nanba H; Hatano K
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA SMART COMPUT BIGCOMP
PY 2024
AB one of the research methods of food computing that utilizes large amounts of
   recipe data is the construction of food ingredient embeddings . ingredient
   embedding is expected to be applied to a wide range of food related
   applications because it enables computers to handle the characteristics of
   food ingredients . in the existing method of contract ingredient embedding ,
   it was calculated using a graph structure of ingredients and compounds
   created based on the co occurrence probability of ingredients in each recipe
   . however , this method must consider which ingredients are used in which
   recipes , and whether a correct ingredient vector can be constructed is
   questionable . in this study , we propose a method for constructing an
   ingredient embedding by explicitly representing in a graph whether or not
   each ingredient is included in any recipe . the difference from existing
   studies is that we construct a heterogeneous graph that includes ingredients
   , compounds , and recipes . the evaluation experiments showed that the food
   ingredient classification task using the food ingredient vectors constructed
   by our method could classify food ingredients with up to 45.8 points higher
   accuracy than existing methods
DE food computing; graph learning; ingredient embedding; recipe analysis
ID graphic methods; cooking recipe; embeddings; food computing; food
   ingredients; graph learning; graph structures; ingredient embedding; large
   amounts; recipe analyze; research method; embeddings

---

UT 80
AR [Anonymous], 2023, IEEE INT CONF RES METHODOL KNOWL MANAG ARTIF INTELL
   TELECOMMUN ENG RMKMATE, DOI 10.1109/RMKMATE59243.2023.10369492
TI ResQFeed: EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES THROUGH OPTIMIZED FOOD RESCUE
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF RES METHODOL KNOWL MANAG ARTIF INTELL TELECOMMUN ENG RMKMATE
PY 2023
AB food waste is an international concern with broad implications . millions of
   tons of food that goes unused are wasted annually , putting stress on
   ecosystems , escalating hunger , and wasting precious resources . millions
   of people are currently food insecure . to solve this complex issue , this
   project aims to tackle the significant problem of food wastage in urban
   environments by introducing an innovative platform that connects surplus
   food suppliers such as restaurants , grocery stores , and catering services
   with local food banks and nonprofit organizations . the platform s main goal
   is to use data analytics to optimize food rescue activities in order to
   lessen the impact on the environment while also alleviating the food
   shortage . this platform reduces transportation expenses while guaranteeing
   that extra food is effectively distributed to underserved areas . this
   project recognizes the serious problem of expired or uneaten food and seeks
   to avoid its needless waste by organizing prompt rescues . it seeks to
   transform how surplus food is handled and shared and thereby contribute to a
   more sustainable and equitable food ecosystem by encouraging cooperation
   between food suppliers and charitable organizations and utilizing the power
   of data analytics for logistical efficiency
DE data analytics; food insecurity; food redistribution; food waste;
   sustainability
ID ecosystems; sustainable development; data analytics; food banks; food
   insecurity; food redistribution; food suppliers; food wastages; food waste;
   grocery stores; local foods; urban environments; data analytics

---

UT 81
AR Chapman J/1, 2022, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V62, P2845, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2020.1863328
TI Challenges and opportunities of the fourth revolution: a brief insight into
   the future of food
AU Chapman J/1; Power A; Netzel ME; Sultanbawa Y; Smyth HE; Truong VK;
   Cozzolino D/1
TC 68
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2022
AB by 2050 , the global population is projected to be in excess of nine billion
   people . this will result in an increased burden and stress on the food
   production systems , particularly in adjustments to several stages of the
   value chain that will require improvements and / or modifications in their
   effectiveness such as reducing waste , adapting to climate change , food
   security , and health . disruptions such as digital agriculture , digital
   food , food agility , big data , have been utilized to characterize the
   changes in the way agro food systems evolve and function , as well as in the
   approach they have been analyzed , measured , and monitored . it has been
   long recognized that the food industry is considered as a data driven
   enterprise . these characteristics are very important as the food industry
   becomes global and sustainable . the food industry is currently undergoing
   significant changes , and with this , challenges are occurring . these
   challenges are brought about from the food chains , climate changes , and
   the ability to be resilient in the production of food . furthermore , health
   and cultural changes to food are occurring , where the diseases of obesity ,
   diabetes , and aging in the population will continue to change the consumer
   s patterns and choices . whereby the consumer will be persuaded to choose
   and eat healthy and more nutritious foods . indeed , the cultural awareness
   and social innovation to prevent food waste and therefore improve food
   security and sustainability will also prove to further complexities . this
   short review will briefly discuss some of the forefront issues in food value
   chains with a focus on using technology
DE big data; digital food; food; food security; food value chain; fourth
   revolution
ID agriculture; climate change; food; food supply; humans; refuse disposal;
   agricultural robots; food supply; food waste; cultural awareness; cultural
   changes; digital agriculture; food industries; food production systems;
   global population; reducing waste; social innovations; agriculture; catering
   service; climate change; food; human; waste disposal; climate change

---

UT 82
AR Mani RJ, 2025, BLOCKCHAIN DIGIT TWIN APPL SMART AGRIC, P215, DOI
   10.1201/9781003507390-13
TI Tech-Driven Harvest: Blockchain’s Role in Sustainable Food Systems and
   Waste-Free Future
AU Mani RJ; Singh S/5; Sonu S; Katare DP
TC 0
SO BLOCKCHAIN DIGIT TWIN APPL SMART AGRIC
PY 2025
AB food waste is a major global issue that has serious economic , environmental
   , and social effects . smart technology can help solve this problem by
   integrating modern digital tools and data driven initiatives throughout the
   food supply chain . internet of things ( iot ) sensors are essential for
   monitoring food quality and inventory levels and improving storage
   conditions . these systems give real time temperature , humidity , and
   spoilage indicators , allowing stakeholders to make educated decisions and
   take proactive steps to reduce waste . predictive analytics algorithms use
   previous sales data , market trends , and weather patterns to forecast
   demand , optimize manufacturing schedules , and avoid overstocking .
   blockchain technology provides a transparent and traceable platform for
   increasing food traceability and accountability along the whole supply chain
   . digital platforms facilitate the redistribution of surplus food to people
   in need , increasing collaboration between food enterprises , non profit
   organizations , and community organizations . by connecting surplus food
   providers with food banks , shelters , and philanthropic organizations ,
   these platforms ensure that edible food is diverted from landfills and fed
   to needy people , thereby reducing food insecurity . however , technology
   limits , budgetary consequences , and cultural shifts must be addressed .
   collaboration among stakeholders , infrastructure investment , and a
   concerted effort to raise understanding and adoption of intelligent
   solutions will be required . by leveraging smart technologies , we can
   combat food waste and create a more sustainable food system . collaboration
   , digital technologies , data analytics , and partnerships can all
   contribute to the shared aim of decreasing food waste and building a more
   equitable and resilient food system . 2025 amit kumar tyagi and shrikant
   tiwari .

---

UT 83
AR Lu Y/1, 2025, PROC ANNU HAWAII INT CONF SYST SCI, P931, DOI
   10.24251/hicss.2025.111
TI Leveraging Analytics to Understand Food Consumption and Waste in Achieving
   Personalized Nudging
AU Lu Y/1; Li S/4; Wang J/1; Kanu I
TC 0
SO PROC ANNU HAWAII INT CONF SYST SCI
PY 2025
AB managing food waste is pivotal in advancing sustainable consumption
   practices . this study investigates how various factors such as food type ,
   consumer spending , socio economic characteristics , and demographics
   correlate with food waste patterns , utilizing data analytics and
   statistical analysis . drawing on studies in green information systems ( is
   ) and digital nudging , we propose three strategic nudging designs : pre
   existing nudges based on food type characteristics , configurable nudges
   tailored to demographic and socio economic profiles , and dynamic nudges
   responsive to evolving consumer behaviors . these interventions are designed
   to utilize behavioral insights to promote more sustainable consumer habits
   and present a novel methodology for substantially reducing food waste
DE consumer behavior; data analytics; digital nudging; food waste reduction;
   green is
ID advanced analytics; population statistics; social behavior; consumer
   spendings; data analytics; digital nudging; food consumption; food waste;
   food waste reduction; green information systems; socio-economics;
   sustainable consumption; waste reduction; consumer behavior

---

UT 84
AR Bharti A, 2025, INT CONF COGN COMPUT ENG COMMUN SCI BIOMED HEAL INFORMATICS
   IC3ECSBHI, P911, DOI 10.1109/IC3ECSBHI63591.2025.10990904
TI Optimizing the Environmental and Operational Performance of Electric Trucks
   in Indian Food Supply Chains Using Advanced Data Analytics and Renewable
   Energy Integration
AU Bharti A; Chauhan RK
TC 0
SO INT CONF COGN COMPUT ENG COMMUN SCI BIOMED HEAL INFORMATICS IC3ECSBHI
PY 2025
AB with increasing pressure to adopt sustainable logistics solutions , electric
   trucks have emerged as a key player in reducing carbon emissions and
   enhancing energy efficiency within food supply chains . this study builds
   upon prior cost benefit analysis by incorporating a multi dimensional
   optimization model for those factors in not only the total cost of ownership
   but also the environmental impacts , operational efficiency , and renewable
   energy integration . a dataset of 13 electric trucks is used to simulate
   various fleet configurations , with a focus on renewable energy powered
   charging stations , real time route optimization using ai algorithms , and
   battery performance under diverse operating conditions . a novel hybrid
   total cost of ownership and environmental impact model is developed to
   evaluate the potential of electric trucks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
   and optimize costs under different charging strategies ( solar , grid ,
   hybrid ) , usage scenarios , and future energy prices . this research offers
   strategic insights for fleet managers and policymakers aiming to create a
   resilient and green food supply chain . monte carlo simulations and
   sensitivity analyzes are employed to forecast the financial and
   environmental benefits of electric truck adoption , offering a dynamic
   perspective on future adoption rates . the paper concludes by recommending
   policy incentives and strategic deployment plans for maximizing electric
   truck adoption in food supply chains
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); battery performance; electric trucks ( ets
   ); food supply chain ( fsc ); grid to vehicle ( g2v ); internet of things (
   iot ); logistics; monte carlo simulation; renewable energy; route
   optimization; sustainability; total cost of ownership ( tco ); vehicle-to-
   grid ( v2g )
ID advanced analytics; automobiles; charging ( batteries ); charging stations;
   cost benefit analysis; electric vehicles; energy policy; environmental
   impact; fleet operations; gas emissions; greenhouse gasses; renewable
   energy; secondary batteries; sensitivity analysis; supply chains; trucks;
   vehicle performance; artificial intelligence; battery performance; electric
   truck; food supply chain; grid to vehicle ( g2v ); monte carlo simulation;
   renewable energies; route optimization; total cost of ownership; vehicle-to-
   grid ( v2g ); vehicle-to-grid ( v2g ); vehicleto-grid ( v2g ); intelligent
   systems; logistics; monte carlo methods; sustainable development

---

UT 85
AR Stoitsis G, 2022, KNOWL FOOD SAF RISK-BASED APPROACH FOOD CHAIN, P1032, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-819470-6.00041-X
TI The role of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence in food risk assessment and
   prediction
AU Stoitsis G; Papakonstantinou M; Karvounis M; Manouselis N
TC 11
SO KNOWL FOOD SAF RISK-BASED APPROACH FOOD CHAIN
PY 2022
AB risk assessment is one of the most important tools to prevent recalls . the
   assessment and management of risk is challenging as it needs to take into
   account all the stages of the supply chain and to use the data that is
   produced at each stage , namely production , incoming ingredients ,
   processing and manufacturing , storage , distribution , and services . this
   chapter focuses on the role of big data and artificial intelligence
   technologies in risk assessment and prediction . available systems and tools
   are reviewed and their role in the different steps of risk assessment is
   analyzed . a methodology for the risk assessment and prediction using global
   food safety data , big data and artificial intelligence technologies is
   presented . the proposed assessment and prediction approach was applied on
   fruits and vegetables and the results are presented . food risk predictions
   could be generated so that food safety and quality assurance teams can be
   prepared to handle the situation before a major product recall happens and
   causes financial expenditures and , most importantly , damages the brand s
   trust and reputation . 2023 international life sciences institute ( ilsi )
   published by elsevier inc
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food recall prevention; food risk
   prediction; food safety

---

UT 86
AR Cui X/1, 2021, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V21, P1, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2021.02.001
TI Big Data of Food Science and Artificial Intelligence Technology;
   [食品科学大数据与人工智能技术]
AU Cui X/1; Li W; Gu C
TC 6
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2021
AB the big data technology indicates that we can obtain the valuable
   information from data with different analysis methods and tools . the
   artificial intelligence refers to develop and research the theory and method
   to mimic or expand the intelligence of humans . big data technology and
   artificial intelligence technology complement each other . big data is the
   cornerstone of artificial intelligence , and artificial intelligence is the
   applications of big data . big data and artificial intelligence of the food
   science are the intersection of big data technology , artificial
   intelligence technology and food science . the integration of artificial
   intelligence and big data technology into the field of traditional food
   science creates new recipes and intelligently recommend , tracks and traces
   food , analyzes user taste preferences and monitors food safety , etc . , so
   that food science obtains greater development and provide the better service
   for humans . this paper demonstrates the current developing status of the
   intersection of big data and artificial intelligence in the food field ,
   analyzes the challenges when applying the big data and artificial
   intelligence into the food domain , discusses feasible solutions , and does
   looking forward to the future development trend of big data and artificial
   intelligence in food science . the purpose of this article is to attract
   more integration of big data and artificial intelligence technology with
   food science , and to improve food science development according to the
   direction of food science to provide better service for the people . 2021 ,
   editorial office of journal of cifst . all right reserved .
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food science; future food
ID big data; data integration; analysis method; artificial intelligence
   technologies; data technologies; development trends; feasible solution; food
   science; theory and methods; traditional food; artificial intelligence

---

UT 87
AR Gupta A/1, 2026, J FOOD PROCESS ENG, V49, DOI 10.1111/jfpe.70333
TI Blockchain-Assisted IoT Framework for Reliable Monitoring and Predictive
   Analytics in Perishable Food Supply Chains
AU Gupta A/1; Jain V
TC 0
SO J FOOD PROCESS ENG
PY 2026
AB the perishable food cold chain is a vital part of the global food system ,
   mainly ensuring the quality of temperature sensitive products such as milk ,
   seafood , fruits , and vegetables . however , this system still faces
   several challenges related to real time monitoring , data transparency , and
   proactive demand planning , which often lead to spoilage , food safety
   violations , and disruptions . in this work , we propose a comprehensive end
   to end system that includes internet of things ( iot ) -based environmental
   sensors , blockchain enabled immutable logging , and a hybrid arimalstm
   model for demand forecasting and spoilage risk detection . the system uses
   esp32 microcontrollers with dht11 sensors at key cold chain points to
   collect temperature and humidity data , streamed to blynk dashboards for
   real time visualization and anomaly alerts . anomalies and product metadata
   are permanently recorded through smart contracts on a private ethereum
   blockchain , while payloads are stored off chain on ipfs for traceability
   and auditability . additionally , historical blockchain logs and external
   sales data are used to train a hybrid arimalstm model that predicts future
   demand and spoilage risks more accurately . experimental results show that
   the proposed model achieves a forecasting accuracy of 90 % ( r2 = 0.90 ) ,
   outperforming baseline approaches on multiple metrics including rmse , mae ,
   mape , and r2 . the framework is scalable and data driven , aiming to
   improve supply availability and reduce food waste
DE arima-lstm; cold chain; food traceability; iot; sales forecasting; spoilage
   detection; temperature monitoring
ID autoregressive moving average model; blockchain; chains; chemical
   contamination; food safety; food supply; food waste; predictive analytics;
   sales; spoilage; thermal processing ( foods ); arima-lstm; blockchain; cold
   chain; food cold chains; food supply chain; food traceabilitys; sales
   forecasting; spoilage detection; spoilage risk; temperature monitoring;
   supply chains

---

UT 88
AR Whig P, 2024, NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS, P547, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-5528-2.ch021
TI Food and supplement safety using data science and ML ensuring quality and
   compliance
AU Whig P; Dhamodharan B; Molli VLP; Dutta PK
TC 7
SO NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS
PY 2024
AB data science is playing a crucial role in enhancing food and supplement
   safety , ensuring that products meet regulatory standards and are safe for
   consumption . this chapter explores the application of data science
   techniques in monitoring and ensuring the safety and quality of food and
   dietary supplements . the authors examine the methodologies used for data
   collection , analysis , and predictive modeling to detect contaminants ,
   adulteration , and compliance with safety regulations . the chapter also
   covers the integration of big data sources , such as laboratory results ,
   consumer feedback , and supply chain data , to provide comprehensive safety
   assessments . case studies and real world applications illustrate how data
   science can preemptively identify potential safety issues and improve
   regulatory compliance . this chapter aims to provide a detailed
   understanding of how leveraging data science can enhance food and supplement
   safety , thereby protecting public health

---

UT 89
AR Zhao J, 2025, PROC INT CONF ELECTR TECHNOL COMPUT ENG EITCE, P397, DOI
   10.1145/3766671.3766742
TI Active Learning-Driven Fine-Grained Sentiment Analysis for Small Food
   Delivery Businesses with Minimal Annotations
AU Zhao J
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF ELECTR TECHNOL COMPUT ENG EITCE
PY 2025
AB fine grained opinion mining helps food delivery merchants react quickly to
   customer concerns , yet most aspect based sentiment analysis ( absa ) models
   rely on large , fully labeled corpora that small businesses can not afford .
   we introduce an active learning driven framework that attains near full
   supervision accuracy while reducing manual annotation by 60 % . the pipeline
   combines ( 1 ) domain adaptive bert pre training to capture restaurant
   specific language . ( 2 ) a hierarchical aspect sentiment clustering ( h
   acsa ) algorithm that supplies a representative seed set , and ( 3 ) an
   entropy bald diversity query by committee ( ebd qbc ) loop that selects the
   most informative reviews for labeling . evaluated on the chinese as soon as
   possible dataset ( 46,730 reviews , 18 aspect categories ) , our system
   reaches 82.3 % macro f 97 % of the fully labeled upper bound using only 40 %
   of the labels . the results demonstrate a practical route to high
   granularity sentiment analytics for resource constrained food delivery
   platforms
DE active learning; aspect-based sentiment analysis; chinese restaurant
   reviews; low-resource nlp
ID artificial intelligence; labeled data; object oriented programming;
   sentiment analysis; world wide web; active learning; aspect-based sentiment
   analyze; chinese restaurant review; customer concerns; fine grained; food
   delivery; low-resource nlp; opinion mining; restaurant reviews; sentiment
   analysis; data mining

---

UT 90
AR Zhang Q, 2025, COMPUT SCI REV, V57, DOI 10.1016/j.cosrev.2025.100739
TI Intelligent visual analytics for food safety: A comprehensive review
AU Zhang Q; Chen Y/4; Liang X/1
TC 2
SO COMPUT SCI REV
PY 2025
AB the emergence of food safety big data poses a huge challenge to data
   analysis and the application of technology . intelligent visual analytics
   combines the advantages of artificial intelligence and visual analytics
   methods to process complex information more efficiently and accurately ,
   providing technical support for intelligent food safety supervision . in
   this paper , we review the development and application of intelligent visual
   analytics for food safety over the past decade . first , we explore food
   safety data sources , data characteristics , and analytical tasks . second ,
   artificial intelligence methods and visualization techniques in food safety
   are presented respectively . third , in depth insights and applications of
   intelligent visual analytics methods from the perspective of food safety
   data characterization are provided , and typical cases are given . finally ,
   opportunities and challenges in intelligent visual analytics for food safety
   are proposed , including emerging technologies such as few shot learning ,
   automatic visualization generation , and large language models . the review
   aims to encourage researchers to propose more practical intelligent visual
   analytics solutions
DE artificial intelligent; big data; data visualization; food safety; human
   computer interaction
ID analytic method; artificial intelligent; complex information; computer
   interaction; development and applications; food safety; safety data; safety
   supervision; technical support; visual analytics; visual analytics

---

UT 91
AR Li P/3, 2024, INT CONF KNOWL MANAG, P3872, DOI 10.1145/3627673.3679885
TI ChefFusion: Multimodal Foundation Model Integrating Recipe and Food Image
   Generation
AU Li P/3; Huang X/5; Tian Y; Chawla NV
TC 3
SO INT CONF KNOWL MANAG
PY 2024
AB significant work has been conducted in the domain of food computing , yet
   these studies typically focus on single tasks such as t2t ( instruction
   generation from food titles and ingredients ) , i2t ( recipe generation from
   food images ) , or t2i ( food image generation from recipes ) . none of
   these approaches integrate all modalities simultaneously . to address this
   gap , we introduce a novel food computing foundation model that achieves
   true multimodality , encompassing tasks such as t2t , t2i , i2t , it2t , and
   t2ti . by leveraging large language models ( llms ) and pre trained image
   encoder and decoder models , our model can perform a diverse array of food
   computing related tasks , including food understanding , food recognition ,
   recipe generation , and food image generation . compared to previous models
   , our foundation model demonstrates a significantly broader range of
   capabilities and exhibits superior performance , particularly in food image
   generation and recipe generation tasks . we open sourced cheffusion at 2024
   acm .
DE food image generation; llms; multi-modal; recipe generation
ID food chemistry; food computing; food image; food image generation;
   foundation models; image generations; instruction generations; llms; multi-
   modal; novel foods; recipe generation; food ingredients

---

UT 92
AR Qian J, 2020, NONGYE GONGCHENG XUEBAO, V36, P182, DOI
   10.11975/j.issn.1002-6819.2020.05.021
TI Review on agricultural products smart traceability system affected by new
   generation information technology; [新一代信息技术对农产品追溯系统智能化影响的综述]
AU Qian J; Wu W/1; Yang P/1
TC 18
SO NONGYE GONGCHENG XUEBAO
PY 2020
AB from the problem of mad cow disease to date , the traceability system as
   effective means to ensure food safety has been introduced for nearly 30
   years . now , reducing breakage degree for traceability chain , enhancing
   traceability credibility , and improving early warning capacity for agri
   food quality and safety , these has increasingly become hot topics of
   traceability system research , which is also urgent problems in traceability
   system application . focusing on these issues , the agricultural products
   smart traceability system affected by new generation information
   technologies based on the relevant literature was summarized and analyzed .
   firstly , the development stages of traceability system from 1.0 to 3.0 were
   presented . the features of the three stages were information recording for
   1.0 , data integration for 2.0 , and intelligent decision making for 3.0 ,
   respectively . secondly , the relationship of new generation information
   technology including internet of things ( iot ) , big data , cloud computing
   , blockchain , artificial intelligence ( ai ) was described . the new
   generation of information technology is not only the vertical promotion of
   single technology , but also the horizontal penetration of technology
   integration . the development trend about big data , artificial intelligence
   and block chain were summarized . finally , the relevant research on the
   issues of reducing the breakage degree for traceability with ai , improving
   early warning capability for agri food quality and safety with big data ,
   and enhancing the traceability credibility of the whole supply chain with
   blockchain were summarized . the orientation of in depth study was put
   forward in the light of the technology development trend . for combing ai ,
   traceability granularity should be improved from within and among supply
   chains through establishment some flexible and intelligent traceability
   models . for coming big data , prediction quality and optimization
   processing model should be enhanced through data mining and analysis from
   different levels . for coming blockchain , traceability block structure
   optimization , privacy protection , block chain consensus algorithm should
   be performed to meet the requirement agri food . in fact , ai , big data ,
   block chain and other technologies have different characteristics . in order
   to improve the intelligent level for traceability system , the different
   technologies should be integrated deeply . this paper provides a useful
   reference for grasping the development trend of traceability system , for
   knowing the research hot spot and for understanding the application
   bottleneck . 2020 , editorial department of the transactions of the chinese
   society of agricultural engineering . all right reserved .
DE agricultural products; artificial intelligence; big data; blockchain; food
   safety; new generation information technology; traceability
ID agricultural products; agricultural robots; artificial intelligence; big
   data; blockchain; data mining; decision making; food safety; internet of
   things; structural optimization; supply chains; consensus algorithms; food
   quality and safeties; information recording; intelligent decision making;
   internet of things ( iot ); technology development; technology integration;
   traceability systems; data integration

---

UT 93
AR Cardoso Schwindt V, 2023, FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL, V16, P24, DOI
   10.1007/s11947-022-02836-x
TI Could QSOR Modelling and Machine Learning Techniques Be Useful to Predict
   Wine Aroma?
AU Cardoso Schwindt V; Coletto MM; Díaz MF; Ponzoni I
TC 24
SO FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB abstract : food informatics is having an increasing impact on the food
   industry and improving the quality of end products , as well as the
   efficiency of manufacturing processes . in the case of winemaking , a
   particular application of interest for food informatics is the sensory
   analysis of wines . this problem can benefit from the strong development
   that machine learning has achieved in recent decades . however , these data
   driven techniques require accurate and sufficient information to generate
   models capable of predicting the sensory profile of wines . a review of the
   sensory analysis and volatile composition of wines is presented in this work
   , along with significant studies on the use of machine learning models to
   predict wine related characteristics such as the antioxidant activity of
   polyphenols of wine and aroma compounds . in this sense , data from a
   sensory panel and analytical technology were gathered . this literature
   review reveals the lack of a homogeneous and sufficiently large database of
   sensory analysis related to the volatile composition of wines to develop
   machine learning models . however , among artificial intelligence approaches
   , the application of quantitative structure odour relationship ( qsor )
   models is currently gaining importance . recent studies show that it would
   be possible to predict quantitatively the sensory analysis of wines by qsor
   models , using general volatile composition information . therefore , the
   purpose of this review is to identify key aspects and guidelines for the
   development of this area
DE machine learning; qsor; volatile composition; wine aroma
ID forecasting; machine learning; odors; sensory analysis; informatics; machine
   learning models; machine learning techniques; machine learning; model
   learning; quantitative structure-odor relationship; quantitative structures;
   relationship model; volatile composition; wine aromas; wine

---

UT 94
AR Jiang S/2, 2022, APPL HUM FACTOR ERGON INT, V62, P442, DOI
   10.54941/ahfe1002587
TI Evidence-Based Decision Making Using Visual Analytics for a Local Food Bank
AU Jiang S/2; Odubela K; Davis L
TC 0
SO APPL HUM FACTOR ERGON INT
PY 2022
AB food insecurity is defined as an individual or household s inability or
   limited access to safe and nutritious food that every person in the
   household need for an active , healthy life . in this research , we apply
   visual analytics , the integration of data analytics and interactive
   visualization , to provide evidence based decision making for a local food
   bank to better understand the people and communities in its service area and
   improve the reach and impact of the food bank . we have identified the
   indicators of the need , rates of usage , and other factors related to the
   general accessibility of the food bank and its programs . an interactive
   dashboard was developed to allow decision makers of the food bank to combine
   their field knowledge with the computing power to make evidence based
   informed decisions in complex hunger relief operations
DE decision making; food bank; food insecurity; visual analytics

---

UT 95
AR Pandey V, 2021, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12665 LNCS, P660, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-68821-9_52
TI Event Mining Driven Context-Aware Personal Food Preference Modelling
AU Pandey V; Rostami A; Nag N; Jain R
TC 5
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2021
AB a personal food model ( pfm ) is essential for high quality food
   recommendation systems to enhance health and enjoyment . we can build such
   models using food logging platforms that capture the users food events . as
   proposed in the westermann and jain event model , capturing six facets of
   multi modal data provides a holistic view of any event . five of these
   facets are captured during the event ( temporal , structural , informational
   , experiential , spatial ) , while the sixth facet is related to the
   causality of the event . this causal facet is needed to build a robust pfm
   if all the other relevant information in the aforementioned five facets are
   captured . any food logger and subsequent processing should collect all this
   data in the food event . ultimately , we want to know what caused this
   person to eat this food and what changes this food event causes in the
   person s health state . in this paper , we identify details of the food
   event model that may help build a causal understanding in pfm to address the
   first aspect of the causality , what may be the contextual factors that
   because a certain food event to occur for a user . we utilize an event
   mining approach to determine the causal relationships to build a contextual
   understanding of the pfm . we generate data using a food event simulator
   that can generate needed food event data for a person with known pfm . the
   event mining results uncover this hidden pfm and demonstrate the greater
   efficacy of this approach than a traditionally designed pfm
DE food computing; health state estimation; multimedia; personal health
   navigation
ID health; user profile; context-aware; event mining; event model; food
   computing; food modeling; health state; health state estimation;
   multimedium; personal health; personal health navigation; modal analysis

---

UT 96
AR Kilic O, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P5, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW61823.2024.00006
TI Analyzing Socioeconomic Status through Culinary Ingredients: A Large-Scale
   Study of Pita and Pizza Dishes
AU Kilic O; Temizel TT
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2024
AB this study investigates whether the ingredients listed on restaurant menus
   can provide insights into a city s socioeconomic status . using data from an
   online food delivery system , the study compares menu items with local
   education rates and rental prices . a machine learning model is developed to
   predict menu prices based on ingredients and socioeconomic factors . an
   efficiency metric is proposed to cluster restaurants to address
   autocorrelation , comparing ingredient averages to socioeconomic indicators
   . the analysis focuses on hundreds of menus , specifically examining pizza
   and turkish pita in ankara , turkiye . the results indicate that including
   nearby rental prices significantly improves the accuracy of predicting menu
   prices , especially for pizza . the study also notes that wealthier areas
   tend to feature menus with more unique or expensive ingredients ,
   particularly in the case of pizza , aligning with previous research on
   eating habits and income levels . key contributions of this research include
   a comprehensive examination of restaurant menus , insights into how menus
   vary based on location and cuisine , and the development of turkish english
   word lists for pita and pizza menu items . our datasets are also shared .
   this methodology aids in understanding local taste preferences and provides
   valuable information for strategic decisions regarding restaurant location
   and menu planning
DE culinary ingredient; food computing; machine learning; online food delivery;
   restaurant menu
ID costs; e-learning; culinary ingredient; food computing; food delivery;
   large-scale studies; machine learning; menu items; online food delivery;
   restaurant menu; socioeconomic status; turkishs; machine learning

---

UT 97
AR Stoitsis G, 2023, FOOD SAF MANAG PRACT GUID FOOD IND ED, P513, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-820013-1.00019-X
TI The Use of Big Data in Food Safety Management: Predicting Food Safety Risks
   Using Big Data and Artificial Intelligence
AU Stoitsis G; Manouselis N
TC 9
SO FOOD SAF MANAG PRACT GUID FOOD IND ED
PY 2023
AB this chapter introduces a process for deploying big data management and
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) in order to predict food risks and prevent
   food recalls . it addresses the challenge of incorporating advanced ai
   techniques that may be used for food risk prediction into operational
   systems that support day to day decisions . the chapter starts by explaining
   the potential of such technologies for food risk prediction and providing an
   overview of similar software systems . it then introduces a process to
   analyze food safety prevention problems and to deploy software solutions
   that may help predict them before they occur . in the main part of the
   chapter , the main elements of the proposed process are explained . this
   includes identifying the right food risk prevention question , selecting the
   relevant datasets , processing and preparing the datasets , executing
   numerous algorithms , and measuring prediction performance . the chapter
   concludes with a discussion of how this process has been followed to
   integrate predictions in a real life food risk intelligence platform
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food recall prediction; food risk
   prevention; predictive analytics; software design process

---

UT 98
AR Zhou P, 2024, IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS, V33, P1285, DOI
   10.1109/TIP.2024.3360899
TI Synthesizing Knowledge-Enhanced Features for Real-World Zero-Shot Food
   Detection
AU Zhou P; Min W; Song J/1; Zhang Y/7; Jiang S
TC 21
SO IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2024
AB food computing brings various perspectives to computer vision like vision
   based food analysis for nutrition and health . as a fundamental task in food
   computing , food detection needs zero shot detection ( zsd ) on novel unseen
   food objects to support real world scenarios , such as intelligent kitchens
   and smart restaurants . therefore , we first benchmark the task of zero shot
   food detection ( zsfd ) by introducing fowa dataset with rich attribute
   annotations . unlike zsd , fine grained problems in zsfd like inter class
   similarity make synthesized features inseparable . the complexity of food
   semantic attributes further makes it more difficult for current zsd methods
   to distinguish various food categories . to address these problems , we
   propose a novel framework zsfdet to tackle fine grained problems by
   exploiting the interaction between complex attributes . specifically , we
   model the correlation between food categories and attributes in zsfdet by
   multi source graphs to provide prior knowledge for distinguishing fine
   grained features . within zsfdet , knowledge enhanced feature synthesizer (
   kefs ) learns knowledge representation from multiple sources ( e . g . ,
   ingredients correlation from knowledge graph ) via the multi source graph
   fusion . conditioned on the fusion of semantic knowledge representation ,
   the region feature diffusion model in kefs can generate fine grained
   features for training the effective zero shot detector . extensive
   evaluations demonstrate the superior performance of our method zsfdet on
   fowa and the widely used food dataset uecfood 256 , with significant
   improvements by 1.8 % and 3.7 % zsd map compared with the strong baseline
   rrfs . further experiments on pascal voc and ms coco prove that enhancement
   of the semantic knowledge can also improve the performance on general zsd .
   code and dataset are available at 1992-2012 ieee .
DE food computing; food detection; object detection; zero-shot detection; zero-
   shot learning
ID benchmarking; learning; semantics; feature extraction; job analysis;
   knowledge representation; object detection; zero-shot learning; annotation;
   correlation; features extraction; fine grained; food computing; food
   detection; objects detection; shot detection; task analysis; zero-shot
   detection; benchmarking; learning; semantics; semantics

---

UT 99
AR Jarvis S, 2024, LANCET PLANET HEAL, V8, PS18, DOI
   10.1016/S2542-5196(24)00083-4
TI Integrating health, nutrition, and environmental impacts of foods: a life
   cycle impact assessment and modelling analysis of foods in Canada
AU Jarvis S; Hadjikakou M; Wu J/2; Classens M; Chiavaroli L; Sievenpiper J;
   L'Abbe M; Jenkins D; Malik V
TC 4
SO LANCET PLANET HEAL
PY 2024
AB background : given the urgency of transitioning toward sustainable nutrition
   , dietary shifts that provide co benefits to human health and the
   environment are imperative . there is currently no database of the
   environmental impacts of foods that reflects canada s unique geographical
   and agri climatic context and regional inputs and emissions . to determine
   sustainable diets , harmonizing nutritional considerations with
   environmental impacts is also essential for an equitable comparison of foods
   . we aimed to develop a canadian food life cycle inventory database and a
   multidimensional index to enable a joint assessment of the health and
   environmental impacts of foods in canada . methods : the canadian food life
   cycle inventory database uses life cycle assessment methodology to evaluate
   environmental impacts . the datasets mirror canada s food consumption
   patterns , averaging the spectrum of agricultural practices weighted by
   domestic production and import shares . the database is structured according
   to the nomenclature and categorization of the canadian nutrient file .
   environmental sustainability is assessed using a cradle to grave approach ,
   including indicators such as greenhouse gas emissions , eutrophication ,
   particulate matter , freshwater usage , land use , non renewable energy
   consumption , and food loss and waste . environmental impacts are quantified
   through an environmental impact score ( eis ) assigned to each impact
   category for a given food . the eis nutrition ( eis n ) integrates the
   evaluation of nutritional quality with environmental impacts using nutri
   score , a validated food nutrient profiling tool . the eis n is modeled as a
   ratio of the eis to the nutri score values . findings : preliminary results
   show the greatest environmental impacts for animal based foods ,
   particularly beef , in agreement with current literature . foods with
   greater nutritional quality also generally show greater environmental
   sustainability , with some exceptions for particular impact categories .
   interpretation : the database and index have potential to serve as powerful
   tools to support researchers , policy makers , and consumers , harnessing
   big data to drive efficient food and climate solutions for systems
   transformation . funding : province of ontario and university of toronto ,
   cihr smart healthy cities training platform , and university of toronto s
   temerty faculty of medicine
ID animals; cattle; diet; environment; food; humans; life cycle stages;
   ontario; animal; bovine; diet; environment; food; human; life cycle stage;
   ontario

---

UT 100
AR Taib H, 2022, BIOSENSING MICRO-NANO DEVICES DES ASP IMPLEMENT FOOD IND,
   P317, DOI 10.1007/978-981-16-8333-6_13
TI Utilizing Big Data as Analytical Tool for Food Safety Applications
AU Taib H; Lim SA
TC 1
SO BIOSENSING MICRO-NANO DEVICES DES ASP IMPLEMENT FOOD IND
PY 2022
AB all food is at risk of contamination , and their consumption has caused an
   estimated 600 million people to fall ill every year . this chapter will
   provide a contextualized overview of big data technologies along with their
   roles , success applications , and various approaches in the food safety
   domain . the roles of convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , a deep learning
   algorithm for big data analytics , of food safety related data of various
   formats will also be discussed . it aims to recommend cnn as a potential
   algorithm for data analytics in parallel to rising developments of
   smartphone based biosensors for applications in the food safety domain
DE big data technologies; convolutional neural network; food safety;
   smartphone-based biosensor data

---

UT 101
AR Harikrishnan S, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V163, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105152
TI Artificial intelligence in sustainable food design: Technological, ethical
   consideration, and future
AU Harikrishnan S; Kaushik D; Rasane P; Kumar A/4; Kaur N; Reddy CK; Proestos
   C; Oz F; Kumar M
TC 14
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : addressing pressing global challenges such as climate change ,
   resource depletion , and food insecurity necessitates innovative approaches
   to sustainable food design . artificial intelligence ( ai ) is emerging as a
   transformative technology with the potential to significantly enhance
   sustainability across the food system . scope and approach : this review
   comprehensively examines the integration of ai into sustainable food design
   . it explores technological innovations including ai driven precision
   farming , smart food processing , and the development of alternative
   proteins . the paper further investigates ai s role in optimizing food
   supply chains through predictive analytics and blockchain . crucially , it
   also delves into the ethical considerations , environmental and social
   impacts , and the evolving regulatory landscape surrounding ai in food
   systems , identifying future prospects and inherent challenges . key
   findings and conclusions : ai offers profound capabilities to revolutionize
   food production , distribution , and consumption , driving efficiency and
   reducing environmental footprints . however , realizing its full potential
   hinges on addressing critical ethical concerns like algorithmic bias , data
   privacy , and social equity , alongside mitigating ai s own environmental
   impact . a multi stakeholder , collaborative approach , underpinned by
   robust ethical frameworks and transparent policies , is imperative to ensure
   the responsible and equitable deployment of ai , ultimately fostering a
   resilient and sustainable global food system for future generations
DE algorithm ethics; food system; machine learning; responsible innovation;
   smart agriculture
ID agriculture; artificial intelligence; data privacy; ecodesign; environmental
   impact; ethical technology; food processing; food supply; smart agriculture;
   sustainable agriculture; sustainable development; algorithm ethic; ethical
   considerations; food designs; food system; global challenges; machine
   learning; pressung; resource depletion; responsible innovation; smart
   agricultures; predictive analytics

---

UT 102
AR Sawant NV, 2021, LECT NOTE MULTIDISCIP IND ENG, VPart F254, P459, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-4550-4_28
TI Predictive Analytics in Food Grain Logistics: Supervised Machine Learning
   Approach
AU Sawant NV; Panicker VV; Anoop KP
TC 3
SO LECT NOTE MULTIDISCIP IND ENG
PY 2021
AB procurement , storage and distribution of food grains across the nation are
   a major challenge for any economy in the world . in india , both public and
   private sector organizations are involved in the food grains procurement ,
   storage and distribution which completes the food grain supply chain for the
   whole country . this work focuses on the movement of food grains in the
   state of kerala through the railway network . the research deals with the
   application of machine learning algorithms to predict the occurrence of
   demurrage cost due to the detention of wagons . in this work , popular
   classification algorithms such as support vector machine , k nearest
   neighbor , decision tree and random forest are used to develop a model to
   predict the occurrence of demurrage cost . various performance measures are
   used to evaluate the different models , and the best model is chosen . the
   classification models are presented with a case illustration at two
   warehouses
DE classification models; food grain; machine learning algorithms; predictive
   analytics; supply chain

---

UT 103
AR Li J/11, 2025, INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN NETW COMPUT TECHNOL ECNCT, P492, DOI
   10.1109/ECNCT66493.2025.11172458
TI Association Rule Mining of Mushroom Toxicity Based on the FP-Growth
   Algorithm
AU Li J/11
TC 0
SO INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN NETW COMPUT TECHNOL ECNCT
PY 2025
AB mushroom poisoning remains a significant public health concern in china ,
   with frequent outbreaks in recent years . to systematically uncover complex
   toxicity patterns from large scale mushroom datasets , this study utilizes
   the publicly available secondary mushroom dataset and implements the
   frequent pattern growth ( fp growth ) to perform association rule mining on
   mushroom toxicity . comprehensive data preprocessing and feature engineering
   were conducted to transform morphological and ecological characteristics
   into a transactional format suitable for analysis . the results reveal that
   specific feature combinations such as close gill spacing , absence of
   bruising , sticky cap surface , presence of a zone type ring , yellow stipe
   , autumn collection , and meadow habitat exhibit exceptionally high
   predictive value for toxicity risk , with some rules achieving a confidence
   of 1.0 and a lift greater than 6.5. these findings provide robust scientific
   evidence and practical guidelines for mushroom toxicity identification ,
   offering valuable support for digital mushroom identification systems , food
   safety regulation , and public health emergency response . furthermore ,
   this work demonstrates the advantages of the fp growth algorithm in
   efficiently mining high dimensional biological data , thus laying a
   methodological foundation for future studies in bioinformatics and food
   safety analytics
DE feature combination; mushroom poisoning; the frequent pattern growth
ID association rules; bioinformatics; food safety; fungi; large datasets;
   public health; data feature; data preprocessing; feature combination; growth
   algorithms; health concerns; large-scales; mushroom poisoning; rule mining;
   the frequent pattern growth; toxicity

---

UT 104
AR Raj P, 2025, AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND, P1, DOI 10.4018/979-8-3693-9884-5
TI AI Innovations for Improving the Food Industry
AU Raj P; Sheng K; Saini K; Koteeswaran S
TC 0
SO AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB ai is rapidly changing the food industry for the better . from precision
   agriculture to smart supply chain management , ai has enhanced efficiency
   and decision making across food systems . as industry embraces digital
   transformation , ai emerges as a powerful catalyst for driving smarter ,
   safer , and more sustainable food systems . ai innovations for improving the
   food industry explores how ai is pioneering new data analytics technology in
   the food industry . this book describes the evolution of the food industry
   through these advancements in ai . covering topics such as agriculture ,
   inventory optimization , and supply chain , this book is an excellent
   resource for researchers , academicians , data scientists , ai engineers ,
   food industry professionals , executives , and more
ID food industry; food supply; precision agriculture; smart agriculture; chain
   management; data analytics; decisions makings; digital transformation;
   enhanced efficiency; food industries; food system; inventory optimization;
   precision agriculture; ]+ catalyst; supply chain management

---

UT 105
AR Khadim A, 2026, MICROCHEM J, V223, DOI 10.1016/j.microc.2026.117296
TI Simultaneous quantification and identification of pesticide and mycotoxin
   residues via a custom high-resolution tandem mass spectral library and
   machine learning
AU Khadim A; Tarabarov A; Gulzar Z; Hussain S; Raza A/1; Musharraf SG; Qin C
TC 0
SO MICROCHEM J
PY 2026
AB the persistent accumulation of pesticides and mycotoxins in agricultural
   products underscores a widespread health issue closely linked to modern
   diseases . rapid , multiplexed screening of mycotoxins and pesticides in
   food is crucial . an open access hr ms2 library containing 318 pesticides
   and 58 mycotoxins was developed using qtof lc ms / ms with stepped collision
   energies ( 1060 ev ) for [ m + h ] + , [ m + na ] + , [ m + nh4 ] + , and [
   m h ] precursors . curated spectra and retention time fingerprints
   identified 42 pesticides and 6 mycotoxins in food samples . quantitative
   analysis revealed concentrations from 0.00125 to 0.0495 mg / kg , with
   average recoveries of 82 % to 118 % at 0.01 and 0.1 mg / kg . differences in
   contaminant profiles , analyzed using stoichiometric models , uncovered
   spectral variations among food samples , with some groups showing partial
   overlap . four classification models , including random forest ( rf ) ,
   adaboost ( ab ) , gradient boosting ( gb ) , and support vector machine (
   svm ) , were applied , and their performance was monitored . a random forest
   classifier achieved 100 % training accuracy and 100 % validation accuracy on
   external data . an open access hr ms2 library with machine learning
   analytics provides scalable , untargeted food hazard screening for
   regulators and producers
DE food samples; machine learning; mycotoxins; pesticides; targeted screening

---

UT 106
AR Liu G/1, 2020, WASTE MANAG, V117, P157, DOI 10.1016/j.wasman.2020.07.028
TI Environmental impacts characterization of packaging waste generated by urban
   food delivery services.  A big-data analysis in Jing-Jin-Ji region (China)
AU Liu G/1; Agostinho F; Duan H; Song G; Wang X/5; Giannetti BF; Santagata R;
   Casazza M; Lega M
TC 73
SO WASTE MANAG
PY 2020
AB controversies on food delivery services environmental impacts have been
   sparked due to the growth of this economic sector . this study focuses on
   the environmental impacts generated by packaging waste related to urban food
   delivery services . in particular , the python based web crawling and sample
   survey methods are used for big data mining , and lca based environmental
   impacts evaluation and kernel density analysis methods are combined to
   determine the positioning trend of food delivery service providers and
   expansion direction of environmental pollution load in jing jin ji region (
   north china ) . results indicate that ( 1 ) food delivery service packages
   presently account for a very small proportion ( < 0.1 % ) of municipal solid
   waste ( msw ) . however , this study also evidences that food packaging
   accounts for 15.7 % of the total msw generated in this region . even if this
   growing market sector might have a relatively low impact , households
   lifestyle might affect the results . ( 2 ) in terms of consumption quantity
   , plastic bags are the most used packages , accounting for 35.08 % . wooden
   chopsticks account for 32.21 % and plastic boxes account for 27.43 % . among
   all environmental impact categories resulting from the process of production
   of packages , greenhouse effect is the most distinct one . paper boxes
   generate the most serious environmental pollution . ( 3 ) the distribution
   of environmental pollution loads resulting from food delivery service
   packages positively correlates with the distribution of food delivery
   service providers in jing jin ji . shijiazhuang has the highest degree of
   pollution resulting from food delivery service packages with the interrupt
   value ratio of 80 % , followed by baoding city and chengde city , which have
   the interrupt value ratios of 65.1 % and 48.6 % , respectively . finally ,
   as bridges between food delivery service providers and consumers , food
   delivery service platforms should improve their environmental protection
   mechanisms . meanwhile , the government should define a standard concerning
   food delivery service packages to consolidate the concept of environmental
   protection in the society to change the ways people consume , in order to
   achieve a harmonious co existence between resource utilization and
   environmental protection
DE big data; environmental impact analysis; food delivery services; packaging
   waste
ID china; cities; data analysis; product packaging; refuse disposal; solid
   waste; china; big data; consumer protection; data mining; environmental
   protection; greenhouse effect; packaging; plastic containers; pollution;
   service industry; web crawler; analysis method; degree of pollutions;
   economic sectors; environmental pollutions; growing markets; municipal solid
   waste ( msw ); packaging waste; resource utilizations; dataset;
   environmental impact; food industry; municipal solid waste; packaging waste;
   waste disposal; waste management; article; big data; china; consumer; food
   packaging; government; greenhouse effect; household; human; lifestyle;
   mining; municipal solid waste; china; city; data analysis; packaging; solid
   waste; waste disposal; municipal solid waste

---

UT 107
AR Alj KS, 2025, COLLOQ INF SCI TECHNOL CIST, P42, DOI
   10.1109/CiSt65886.2025.11224296
TI Large Language Models Evaluation for Role-Aware Ingredient Substitution in
   Recipes
AU Alj KS; Mourhir A; Alj YS
TC 0
SO COLLOQ INF SCI TECHNOL CIST
PY 2025
AB selecting appropriate ingredient substitutes in recipes is challenging , as
   ingredients often serve multiple functional roles such as binding ,
   thickening , or sweetening . traditional approaches , including rule based
   and co occurrence methods , overlook the role an ingredient plays in context
   . while large language models show strong natural language understanding ,
   their ability to infer ingredient roles and generate context aware
   substitutions has not been systematically evaluated . this paper evaluates
   five models , namely , gpt 4o , gpt 3.5-turbo , gemma 2-9b it , mistral 7b
   instruct , and llama 3.2-3b instruct , on a role aware ingredient
   substitution task . the evaluation includes role classification and
   substitute generation , with hit@1 as the primary metric . gpt 4o achieves
   the best performance ( 59.28 % ) , followed by gpt 3.5-turbo ( 58.09 % ) and
   gemma 2-9b it ( 45.18 % ) , while mistral 7b instruct and llama 3.2-3b
   instruct perform less effectively ( 36.02 % and 28.39 % , respectively )
DE automated recipe modification; food computing; ingredient substitution;
   large language models ( llms ); prompt engineering; recipe adaptation
ID artificial intelligence; food ingredients; automated recipe modification;
   food computing; functionals; ingredient substitution; language model; large
   language model; model evaluation; prompt engineering; recipe adaptation;
   recipe modifications; natural language processing systems

---

UT 108
AR Patnaik S, 2024, NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS, P1, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-5528-2
TI Nutrition controversies and advances in autoimmune disease
AU Patnaik S; Hamad AM; Paul D; Dutta PK; Shafiq M
TC 0
SO NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS
PY 2024
AB understanding the complex interplay between food safety , nutrition ,
   bioscience , and data algorithms is crucial for effectively managing
   autoimmune diseases . however , the current literature often needs a
   comprehensive resource that integrates these disciplines , leaving
   researchers , clinicians , and industry professionals needing a clearer
   understanding of how to apply these concepts in practice . this gap in
   knowledge hinders the development of personalized nutrition plans and
   precision health interventions , ultimately limiting the effectiveness of
   autoimmune disease management strategies . nutrition controversies and
   advances in autoimmune disease brings to the table more than a mere
   theoretical guide . it offers practical applications and case studies that
   bring to life the latest research and developments in the fields of food
   safety , nutrition , bioscience , and data algorithms . by integrating these
   disciplines , the book provides readers with the knowledge and tools to
   develop personalized nutrition plans and implement precision health
   interventions for autoimmune diseases , making it a valuable resource for
   anyone in the field . this book caters to a diverse audience , including
   researchers , clinicians , dieticians , nutritionists , students , academics
   , and food industry professionals . it is a valuable reference on the
   interplay between food , nutrition , bioscience , and data science for
   autoimmune disease management . by providing cutting edge insights and
   techniques , nutrition controversies and advances in autoimmune disease
   empowers readers to make informed decisions that can improve patient
   outcomes and advance our understanding of autoimmune diseases

---

UT 109
AR Guo Y, 2023, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1811 CCIS, P521, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-2443-1_45
TI Research on Food Recommendation Method Based on Knowledge Graph
AU Guo Y; Chen Y/4; Wei W/1; Li H
TC 3
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2023
AB food recommendation is a crucial task in the field of food computing , which
   aims to match a user s preferences with appropriate food options by
   uncovering their latent preferences . however , traditional content based
   and collaborative filtering methods may not effectively capture these
   preferences , as they overlook the rich information contained in food data .
   to address this issue , this paper explores the use of a knowledge graph
   based approach to food recommendation . specifically , we construct a food
   knowledge graph that contains abundant relational information and data on
   food products . we propose a novel recommendation model called the knowledge
   aware attention graph convolutional network , which aggregates neighbor
   information using knowledge aware attention and captures higher order
   neighbor information by stacking multiple layers . we also employ different
   aggregation methods for user entities and internal entities of the knowledge
   graph . we conducted experiments on a large food recommendation dataset ,
   and our results show that our proposed model significantly outperforms the
   benchmark approach
DE food knowledge graph; food recommendation; graph convolutional network;
   message passing
ID collaborative filtering; convolution; graphic methods; knowledge graph;
   large dataset; message passing; content-based; convolutional networks; food
   computing; food knowledge graph; food recommendation; graph convolutional
   network; knowledge graphs; message passing; recommendation methods; user
   preferences; food products

---

UT 110
AR Zhang C/1, 2022, PROC - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL AIE, P413, DOI
   10.1109/AIE57029.2022.00085
TI Design of Food Safety Supervision System in the Background of Big Data
AU Zhang C/1; Zhao W; Dong L/1
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL AIE
PY 2022
AB the food safety control system is designed based on big data . the
   combination of food safety inspection system and large scale data processing
   technology can effectively improve the efficiency and quality of food
   inspection . however , it should be pointed out that this integration not
   only improves efficiency , but also reduces costs . therefore , it is
   necessary to combine modern management methods with large scale data
   processing technology to build an intelligent mass information management
   system based on information . the use of big data has become one of the
   important strategies to overcome management difficulties . in recent years ,
   big data has been more and more widely used in the field of food safety
   control . this paper analyzes the advantages of big data in food safety
   supervision compared with the traditional model , and discusses the problems
   existing in the application of big data processing technology . this paper
   puts forward measures and suggestions to improve food safety supervision
   based on big data , and draws lessons from food safety supervision in a
   broader data context
DE big data; counter-measures and suggestions; existing problems; food safety
   supervision
ID data handling; efficiency; food safety; information management; safety
   engineering; counter-measures; counter-measure and suggestion; data
   processing technologies; existing problems; food safety control; food safety
   supervision; food safety; large-scale data processing; safety supervision;
   safety supervision system; big data

---

UT 111
AR Lachiheb MM, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2858 CCIS, P129, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-21582-6_10
TI TuniFood-Bio: A Bi-Modal Dataset for Healthy Tunisian Food Classification
AU Lachiheb MM; Zlitni T; Ammar A
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB this paper introduces tunifood bio , a bi modal dataset combining high
   resolution images of tunisian dishes annotated via yolo with structured
   nutritional metadata ( calories , macronutrients ) in tabular format . our
   approach circumvents fine grained ingredient extraction difficulties by
   linking recipe level visual detection directly to a validated nutritional
   lookup table . unlike joint bi modal learning systems , only the image
   classifier is trained . nutritional values are retrieved without additional
   modeling . benchmark results demonstrate robust performance ( 90.5 % map@50
   ) and exceptional classification precision ( 91.2 % ) under diverse real
   world complexities including variable lighting , ingredient occlusions , and
   regional dish variations significantly outperforming unimodal baselines in
   challenging scenarios like overlapped stews ( e . g . , chakchouka ) and
   enclosed pastries ( e . g . , brik ) . this late stage integration improves
   classification accuracy while enabling practical nutrition sensitive
   applications like calorie reporting and culturally adapted dietary tools .
   the dataset and pipeline are publicly available to advance food computing
   and regional health analysis
DE bi-modal dataset; food classification; nutrition-aware recommendation;
   tunisian cuisine
ID benchmarking; classification ( of information ); food ingredients; image
   classification; learning systems; nutrition; bi-modal dataset; fine grained;
   food classification; high resolution images; image classifiers; lookups;
   nutrition-aware recommendation; nutritional value; tunisian cuisine; visual
   detection; table lookup

---

UT 112
AR Belkhiria F, 2022, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA, P4055, DOI
   10.1109/BigData55660.2022.10020762
TI Using Big Data and Machine Learning for Multilayered Surveillance for
   Healthy Food Environment and Diet
AU Belkhiria F; Nie J-Y; Paquet C; Sengupta R; Gieschen A; Talukder B; Brown S;
   Dube L
TC 6
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA
PY 2022
AB as a means to understanding the healthiness of the food environment ,
   obtaining big data ( big food and other types ) to model the built
   environment becomes critical . in this paper , we train and test seven
   different ml methods on bigdata from census data to predict the healthiness
   of the food environment . we introduce a synthetic ecosystem platform that
   can be used to bridge big data of different types combined with ml method
   for supporting food environment surveillance and intervention simulations .
   we illustrate with an example of neighborhood level healthfulness assessment
   and conclude by a presentation of our next steps on employing machine
   learning to classify diet quality and recommend healthier food options to
   consumers
DE big data; food environment; machine learning; mrfei
ID machine learning; population statistics; simulation platform; built
   environment; census data; food environment; healthy foods; machine learning;
   mrfei; multi-layered; neighborhood; big data

---

UT 113
AR Salman C K M, 2025, FOOD CHEM X, V25, DOI 10.1016/j.fochx.2024.102132
TI Biomimic models for in vitro glycemic index: Scope of sensor integration and
   artificial intelligence
AU Salman C K M; Beura M; Singh A/2; Dahuja A; Kamble VB; Shukla RP;
   Thandapilly SJ; Krishnan V
TC 2
SO FOOD CHEM X
PY 2025
AB the accurate quantification of glycemic index ( gi ) remains crucial for
   diabetes management , yet current methodologies are constrained by resource
   intensiveness and methodological limitations . in vitro digestion models
   face challenges in replicating the dynamic conditions of the human
   gastrointestinal tract , such as enzyme variability and multi time point
   analysis , leading to suboptimal predictive accuracy . this review proposes
   an integrated technological framework combining non enzymatic
   electrochemical sensing with artificial intelligence to revolutionize gi
   assessment . non enzymatic sensors offer superior stability and
   repeatability in complex matrices , enabling real time glucose
   quantification across multiple timepoints without enzyme degradation
   constraints . machine learning algorithms , both supervised and unsupervised
   , enhance predictive accuracy by elucidating complex relationships within
   digestion data . this technological convergence represents a paradigm shift
   in food science analytics , promising improved throughput and precision in
   gi assessment . future developments should focus on system scalability and
   broader applications across nutritional science , advancing diabetic
   management and personalized nutrition strategies
DE artificial intelligence; electrochemical sensor; glycemic index; in vitro
   models; starch hydrolysis
ID electrochemical sensors; glucose; starch; accurate quantifications; diabetes
   management; electrochemicals; glycemic index; in vitro; in vitro models;
   index assessment; predictive accuracy; sensor integration; starch
   hydrolysis; artificial intelligence; diabetes mellitus; digestion;
   electrochemical sensor; enzyme degradation; gastrointestinal tract; glycemic
   index; human; hydrolysis; in vitro study; learning algorithm; machine
   learning; personalized nutrition; review; sensor; glucose sensors

---

UT 114
AR Elragal R, 2024, INT SYMP INFOTEH-JAHORINA INFOTEH - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/INFOTEH60418.2024.10495934
TI Food Analytics - A Literature Review and Ways Forward
AU Elragal R; Elragal A; Habibipour A
TC 0
SO INT SYMP INFOTEH-JAHORINA INFOTEH - PROC
PY 2024
AB this research examines the potential use of modern technologies such as big
   data , data science , artificial intelligence , and machine learning , which
   have penetrated several aspects of our lives , to address food concerns and
   problems , forming the nowadays called food analytics . we discuss the
   potential use of such technologies in relation to food problems and
   shortages . we analyze the opportunities and challenges associated with the
   use of such technological advancements and the potential benefits for the
   global food system . we device an articulated research agenda with future
   directions for the application of big data , data science , artificial
   intelligence , and machine learning to food ecosystem
DE ai; big data; data science; food analytics; research agenda
ID data science; machine learning; artificial intelligence learning; food
   analytic; food problems; food system; literature reviews; machine learning;
   modern technologies; potential benefits; research agenda; technological
   advancement; big data

---

UT 115
AR Shaeeali NS, 2020, IAES INT J ARTIF INTELL, V9, P691, DOI
   10.11591/ijai.v9.i4.pp691-699
TI Customer reviews analytics on food delivery services in social media: A
   review
AU Shaeeali NS; Mohamed A; Mutalib S
TC 26
SO IAES INT J ARTIF INTELL
PY 2020
AB food delivery services have gained attention and become a top priority in
   developed cities by reducing travel time and waiting time by offering online
   food delivery options for a variety of dishes from a wide variety of
   restaurants . therefore , customer analytics have been considered in
   business analysis by enabling businesses to collect and analyze customer
   feedback to make business decisions to be more advanced in the future . this
   paper aims to study the techniques used in customer analytics for food
   delivery services and identify the factors of customers reviews for food
   delivery services especially in social media . a total of 53 papers reviewed
   , several techniques and algorithms on customer analytics for food delivery
   services in social media are lexicon , machine learning , natural language
   processing ( nlp ) , support vector machine ( svm ) , and text mining . the
   paper further analyze the challenges and factors that give impacts to the
   customers reviews for food delivery services . these findings would be
   appropriate for development and enhancement of food delivery services in
   future works . 2020 , institute of advanced engineering and science
DE artificial intelligence; food delivery services; sentiment analysis; social
   media

---

UT 116
AR Sager MT, 2025, J COMPUT EDUC, V37, P1489, DOI 10.1007/s12528-025-09466-0
TI Farming with data: tracing critical tensions using data science for food
   justice
AU Sager MT; Sherard MK; Petrosino AJ
TC 2
SO J COMPUT EDUC
PY 2025
AB in this manuscript , we explore the intersection of artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) and equitable learning in higher education , focusing on data science
   as a subset of ai and social justice as the core theme of equity . our
   investigation sheds light on the nuanced tensions inherent in employing data
   science for social justice . rooted in situated perspectives of learning and
   consequential learning , our study employs an instrumental case study
   methodology and analysis techniques from interaction and conversation
   analysis . collaborating with three undergraduate students and an urban farm
   , the students used data science practices to highlight inequities
   surrounding food justice and access to food . our findings reveal three key
   tensions : ( 1 ) the undergraduates discourse on simplicity versus
   complexity in utilizing data science for social justice , ( 2 ) the
   challenges of balancing data science with social justice imperatives , and (
   3 ) the successful application of data science by the students in their food
   justice project , culminating in a presentation of their findings to the
   farm s director . we conclude by discussing implications for research and
   the use of data science in social justice projects
DE artificial intelligence; consequential learning; data science education;
   food justice; higher education; social justice; urban farming

---

UT 117
AR Vikanksha V, 2024, REVOLUTIONIZING SUSTAIN FOOD PROD QUANTUM COMPUT, P277,
   DOI 10.4018/979-8-3373-3957-3_9
TI Reducing Food Waste Through Predictive Analytics
AU Vikanksha V; Kumar A/3; Singh J
TC 0
SO REVOLUTIONIZING SUSTAIN FOOD PROD QUANTUM COMPUT
PY 2024
AB reducing food waste is a critical challenge that impacts environmental
   sustainability , economic efficiency , and global food security . predictive
   analytics , leveraging big data and machine learning technologies , provides
   innovative solutions to address this issue by enhancing demand forecasting ,
   optimizing inventory management , and improving supply chain responsiveness
   . by analyzing historical consumption patterns and employing advanced
   algorithms , businesses can better align production with consumer demand ,
   thereby minimizing overproduction and food spoilage . this paper discusses
   various predictive analytics applications in the food industry , including
   real time monitoring , demand forecasting , and waste analysis tools . it
   highlights case studies demonstrating the effectiveness of these
   technologies in reducing food waste , ultimately contributing to a more
   sustainable food system
ID big data; food industry; food supply; information management; inventory
   control; supply chains; sustainable development; consumption patterns;
   critical challenges; demand forecasting; economic efficiency; environmental
   sustainability; food waste; global food security; innovative solutions;
   inventory management; machine learning technology; predictive analytics

---

UT 118
AR Jung H, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14172965
TI Exploring Consumer Perception of Food Insecurity Using Big Data
AU Jung H; Yoon HH; Cho M
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB this study investigated consumer perception of food insecurity by refining
   data collected from social media platforms . text mining and tf idf were
   used to extract core keywords closely related to food insecurity and analyze
   their meanings . in addition , time series analysis and sentiment analysis
   were used to examine temporal and emotional changes . the analysis results
   showed that keywords , such as health , stress , mental , and depression ,
   appeared frequently , indicating that food insecurity is closely related to
   psychological and mental problems . in addition , consumers showed high
   emotional sensitivity to essential nutrients , such as vitamin d , magnesium
   , calcium , and omega . furthermore , stress indices and mental and physical
   response indices increased simultaneously during this period , indicating
   that food insecurity is a factor that causes emotional and physical
   responses . the results of the sentiment analysis showed that negative
   emotions ( anxiety , fear , and sadness ) were higher than positive emotions
   , suggesting that discussions related to food insecurity have a negative
   emotional impact
DE big data; food insecurity; social media; south korea

---

UT 119
AR Chen F/1, 2023, APPL SCI, V13, DOI 10.3390/app13020736
TI Research on the Spatial and Temporal Differences in Public Response to
   Release-Type Communication to Stop Food Waste
AU Chen F/1; Gao C; Gu X; Yue T
TC 3
SO APPL SCI
PY 2023
AB release type communication is a common way to guide the public to reduce
   food waste . it is of great significance to clarify the intervention effect
   of release type communication on residents waste behavior and reveal the
   time evolution law of public response to reduce food waste . this study
   obtains 13,958 comments on food waste through big data mining and explores
   characteristics of public response to food waste behavior in different time
   and space from two dimensions of support intention and implementation
   intention . through statistical analysis , empirical mode decomposition
   method , and cross analysis , we find that : public concern about release
   type communication to stop food waste has experienced five stages :
   incubation period , outbreak period , recession period , second outbreak
   period , and fading period . overall , the support intention presents a down
   up down trend , the implementation intention rises and then descends , both
   appear inflection point in recession period . the trend term of empirical
   mode decomposition shows that the support intention goes down , the
   implementation intention goes up . besides , the support intention and
   implementation intention of release type communication to stop food waste
   are generally higher in western china . in particular , the support
   intention is significantly reduced in beijing , guangdong , and fujian . the
   implementation intention is significantly increased in shanghai , while it
   is reduced notably in shandong . this study provides important implications
   for guiding the public to reduce food waste , the government should
   formulate differentiated governance strategies to guide the public to reduce
   food waste according to the time change characteristics and spatial
   territorial differences of the public on release type communication
DE empirical mode decomposition ( emd ) method; food waste; public response;
   release-type communication; spatio-temporal difference

---

UT 120
AR Xu J/3, 2022, AGRIC, V12, DOI 10.3390/agriculture12060815
TI A Rice Security Risk Assessment Method Based on the Fusion of Multiple
   Machine Learning Models
AU Xu J/3; Wang Z/8; Zhang X/2; Yu J/1; Cui X/2; Zhou Y/5; Zhao Z/1
TC 5
SO AGRIC
PY 2022
AB with the accelerated digital transformation , food security data is
   exponentially growing , making it difficult to process and analyze data as
   the primary challenge for food security risk regulation . the promotion of '
   big data + food ' safety supervision can effectively reduce supervision
   costs and improve the efficiency of risk detection and response . in order
   to improve the utilization of testing data and achieve rapid risk assessment
   , this paper proposes a rice security risk assessment method based on the
   fusion of multiple machine learning models , and conducts experimental
   validation based on rice hazard detection data from 31 provinces in china
   excluding hong kong , macao and taiwan in 2018 . the model comparison
   verifies that the risk assessment model shows better performance than other
   mainstream machine learning algorithms , and its evaluation accuracy is as
   high as 99.54 % , which verifies that the model proposed in this paper is
   more stable and accurate , and can provide accurate and efficient decision
   making basis for regulatory authorities
DE clustering algorithm; food security; group decision; model fusion; risk
   assessment

---

UT 121
AR Gupta SK, 2024, CEUR WORK PROC, V3882
TI Building FKG.in: A knowledge graph for Indian food
AU Gupta SK; Dey L; Das PP; Jain R
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2024
AB this paper presents an ontology design along with knowledge engineering and
   multilingual semantic reasoning techniques to build an automated system for
   assimilating culinary information for indian food in the form of a knowledge
   graph . the main focus is on designing intelligent methods to derive
   ontology designs and capture all encompassing knowledge about food , recipes
   , ingredients , cooking characteristics , and most importantly , nutrition ,
   at scale . we present our ongoing work in this workshop paper , describe in
   some detail the relevant challenges in curating knowledge of indian food ,
   and propose our high level ontology design . we also present a novel
   workflow that uses ai , llm , and language technology to curate information
   from recipe blog sites in the public domain to build knowledge graphs for
   indian food . the methods for knowledge curation proposed in this paper are
   generic and can be replicated for any domain . the design is application
   agnostic and can be used for ai driven smart analysis , building
   recommendation systems for personalized digital health , and complementing
   the knowledge graph for indian food with contextual information such as user
   information , food biochemistry , geographic information , agricultural
   information , etc
DE food computing; knowledge engineering; large language models; nutrition
   informatics; ontology design; semantic reasoning
ID food ingredients; ontology; automated systems; food computing; informatics;
   knowledge graphs; language model; large language model; nutrition
   informatic; ontology design; reasoning techniques; semantic reasoning;
   knowledge graph

---

UT 122
AR Wang Y/5, 2021, E3S WEB CONF, V292, DOI 10.1051/e3sconf/202129202012
TI Overview of Fusion Technology in Food Safety Big Data
AU Wang Y/5; Yang B; Yang H; Hao M; Zhang C/5; Tao H
TC 1
SO E3S WEB CONF
PY 2021
AB large amounts of organized and unstructured data from various sources and
   origins are increasingly being handled by technology . big data is a term
   used to describe these technologies , which open up new fields of research
   and applications that will have an expanding impact on all aspects of our
   society . because of its potential to turn massive amounts of data into
   insights for informed business and operational choices , big data has found
   uses in a variety of industries . in the food industry , advanced techniques
   have been used for providing food safety . we present an overview of how and
   to what extent big data is being used in the food safety domain in this
   study . mobile phones as food safety detecting devices and the use of social
   media as an early warning system for food safety issues are just two
   examples of the new advancements made feasible by big data . the authors ,
   published by edp sciences .

---

UT 123
AR Wang Z/10, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V156, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104842
TI Personalized diets based on multi-objective optimization of nutrition and
   sensory characteristics: A digital strategy for enhancing food quality
AU Wang Z/10; Huang Q/1; Ji S; Amrouche AT; Zhu Y/3; Li X; Shen J/3; Xiao H; Li
   P/2; Lu B
TC 12
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : personalized diets aim at designing dietary interventions for
   individuals and satisfying sensory preferences . an increasing interest is
   how to balance the deliciousness and nutrition rather than focus on one side
   of them . with the development of technology and interdisciplinary
   integration , a review of the current situation and future trends is
   necessary . scope and approach : in this paper , we introduced the food
   nutrition and sensory digitization , respectively . the computational
   methods and food technologies in multi objective optimization ( moo ) of
   nutrition and sensory characteristics were reviewed comprehensively . the
   application of food technology in improving the nutrition and sensory
   quality of food was summarized as well . key findings and conclusions : this
   review indicated the methods of digital representation in precision
   nutrition , food perception science , and moo . we highlighted the fact that
   the moo would improve nutrition and sensory qualities simultaneously in
   personalized dietary design . the application of moo emphasized the
   importance of diversified demands with higher food quality . advances in big
   data and machine learning promoted the development of personalized diets
   with sensory enjoyment and health benefits . this review focused on
   assisting the field of precision nutrition more scientifically ,
   intelligently , and characteristically . the personalized strategy based on
   moo will provide guidance for the development of healthy food . it is
   believed that the personalized strategy of nutrition and sensory moo driven
   by artificial intelligence will be a popular trend in future food
DE computational methods; food perception; food technologies; individuation;
   machine learning; precision nutrition
ID digital strategies; food perception; food quality; individuation; machine
   learning; multi-objectives optimization; nutrition quality; precision
   nutrition; sensory characteristics; sensory qualities; food ingredients

---

UT 124
AR Takefuji Y, 2026, FOOD HUMANIT, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2026.101006
TI Methodological pitfalls in food security analytics: Addressing biases in
   regression, SHAP, and feature importance analyses
AU Takefuji Y
TC 0
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2026
AB this paper critically examines methodological challenges in food security
   research through analysis of 576 articles published in the global food
   security journal , introducing a novel ' leave top1-out ' validation
   approach to assess feature importance reliability . using a public dataset
   of 12,564 instances with 195 features , we demonstrate how supervised models
   achieve high prediction accuracy while producing unstable feature importance
   rankings . our empirical findings reveal that unsupervised methods and non
   target prediction approaches maintain remarkable consistency in feature
   rankings despite perturbation , while supervised models and their shapley
   additive explanations ( shap ) variants exhibit dramatic shifts in feature
   importance hierarchies when top predictors are removed . these results
   substantiate our identification of primary methodological misapplications in
   ground truth challenges in model interpretation . the supervised models
   focus on demographic characteristics rather than direct food security
   indicators further demonstrates how optimization for prediction accuracy can
   compromise reliable feature identification without consistency and dose
   response relationships validation . to address these limitations , we
   advocate for a multifaceted analytical framework combining unsupervised
   techniques with nonlinear nonparametric methods to achieve greater stability
   in identifying reliable food security determinants . our complete
   methodology and implementation code are publicly available on github to
   promote reproducibility and methodological transparency in food security
   research
DE explainable artificial intelligence; feature importance stability; food
   security analytics; methodological bias; model-specific limitations

---

UT 125
AR Zhou Q/1, 2022, INT J FOOD ENG, V18, P1, DOI 10.1515/ijfe-2021-0299
TI Artificial intelligence, big data, and blockchain in food safety
AU Zhou Q/1; Zhang H/3; Wang S/1
TC 89
SO INT J FOOD ENG
PY 2022
AB food safety plays an essential role in our daily lives , and it becomes
   serious with the development of worldwide trade . to tackle the food safety
   issues , many advanced technologies have been developed to monitor the
   process of the food industry ( fi ) to ensure food safety , including the
   process of food production , processing , transporting , storage , and
   retailing . these technologies are often referred to as artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , big data , and blockchain , which have been widely
   applied in many research areas . in this review , we introduce these
   technologies and their applications in the food safety domain . firstly ,
   basic concepts of these technologies are presented . then , applications for
   food safety from a data perspective based on these technologies are analyzed
   . finally , future challenges of the applications of ai , big data , and
   blockchain are discussed
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); big data; blockchain; food safety; systemic
   view
ID accident prevention; artificial intelligence; big data; digital storage;
   food safety; advanced technology; artificial intelligence; blockchain; daily
   lives; food industries; food production; food retailing; food safety; safety
   issues; systemic views; blockchain

---

UT 126
AR Wang J/1, 2024, EXPERT SYS APPL, V255, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2024.124720
TI RD-FGM: A novel model for high-quality and diverse food image generation and
   ingredient classification
AU Wang J/1; Zheng Y/1; Wang J/2; Xiao X; Sun J/1; Hou S
TC 5
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2024
AB food image generation plays a crucial role in evaluating multiple food
   ingredients , predicting dietary preferences , recommending food , and
   computing dietary nutrition . however , this task is challenging due to the
   large variation in the appearance of recipe components , the difficulty in
   aligning multi modal features , and the lack of diversity in generated data
   . to address these challenges , we propose a novel recipeclip diffusion food
   generation model ( rd fgm ) , which facilitates high quality diverse image
   generation while accomplishing multi modal feature alignment . specifically
   , the recipeclip model implements a multi ingredient embedding of imagetext
   pairs for aligning contextual features . additionally , we devise a multi
   conditional guided diffusion model that achieves data distribution learning
   and generation control . we evaluate rd fgm on the large scale recipe1m and
   vireo food 172 chinese datasets . many experiments including quantitative
   analyzes , qualitative analyzes , and ablation studies demonstrate the
   effectiveness of rd fgm . in addition , we further model migration
   experiments to evaluate its scalability for other downstream tasks such as
   ingredient classification . the capability to generate realistic food images
   from textual recipes opens up new avenues for exploring culinary creations ,
   food and ingredients classification , promising various applications in the
   food industry and beyond
DE computer vision; diffusion model; food computing; food image generation;
   multi-modal joint embedding
ID computer vision; diffusion; image classification; large datasets; nutrition;
   diffusion model; embeddings; food computing; food image; food image
   generation; food ingredients; high quality; image generations; multi-modal;
   multi-modal joint embedding; embeddings

---

UT 127
AR Mehdizadeh M, 2026, FOOD SAF HEAL, V4, P50, DOI 10.1002/fsh3.70046
TI Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) for Rapid Food Safety
   Monitoring: Advancements, Applications, and Future Directions
AU Mehdizadeh M; Omidi A; Ikegwu TM; Okolo CA; IfedibaluChukwu EI; Ndufeiya-
   Kumasi LC
TC 5
SO FOOD SAF HEAL
PY 2026
AB this systematic review evaluates the principles , advancements , and
   applications of libs across diverse food matrices , synthesizing findings
   from 10 peer reviewed studies identified through rigorous prisma guided
   searches in sciencedirect , scopus , and pubmed ( 20102025 ) . results
   demonstrate libs s capacity for real time , minimally destructive analysis
   with minimal sample preparation , achieving detection limits of 0.0096.9 mg
   / kg through innovations such as nanoparticle enhanced ablation and hybrid
   systems ( libs raman ) . portable libs devices further highlight the
   technique s potential for decentralized monitoring in resource limited
   settings . however , challenges persist in sensitivity for trace level
   residues ( < 1 ppm ) and matrix interference from organic components ,
   necessitating advanced chemometric models for accurate quantification . this
   review underscores libs s alignment with green analytical chemistry
   principles by eliminating solvent use and reducing hazardous waste .
   although libs excels in rapid screening , its reliance on elemental proxies
   limits standalone confirmatory testing , requiring integration with
   techniques such as mass spectrometry . future research must prioritize
   hybrid platforms , ai driven spectral interpretation , and standardized
   validation protocols to bridge sensitivity gaps and enhance regulatory
   acceptance . by balancing agricultural productivity with public health
   demands , libs stands poised to revolutionize food safety analytics ,
   offering a pragmatic solution for global pesticide monitoring amid
   escalating agricultural intensification and sustainability imperatives .
   2025 the author ( s ) . food safety and health published by john wiley and
   sons australia , ltd on behalf of international association of dietetic
   nutrition and safety .
DE chemometrics; food safety; libs; on-site monitoring; pesticide residues;
   rapid detection

---

UT 128
AR Chen Y/6, 2025, INT CONF MACH LEARN BIG DATA BUS INTELL MLBDBI, P77, DOI
   10.1109/MLBDBI67855.2025.11331552
TI Paradigm Reconstruction and Mechanism Exploration of Food Segmentation
   Technology Based on Image Recognition
AU Chen Y/6; Wei K
TC 0
SO INT CONF MACH LEARN BIG DATA BUS INTELL MLBDBI
PY 2025
AB the food segmentation technology based on artificial intelligence has
   witnessed rapid development in recent years . influenced by artificial
   intelligence ( especially the rapidly evolving deep learning ) , it has
   provided possible conditions for the emergence of this new interdisciplinary
   research field in food computing . this thesis comprehensively summarizes
   and discusses the current research progress in food image recognition ,
   introduces the current mainstream food image recognition datasets , and
   conducts performance comparisons and superiority / desirability distinctions
   of different recognition algorithms recognition results on these datasets .
   moreover , in future research work , from the perspective of food image
   recognition based on the characteristics of food images , which parts should
   be emphasized in food image recognition , it summarizes that the food
   segmentation technology is upgrading from a single recognition task to a
   multimodal collaborative decision making system , and will undoubtedly drive
   the value leap of the food industry chain in the future
DE component; formatting; insert; style; styling
ID artificial intelligence; decision making; engineering research; image
   enhancement; image segmentation; current; component; condition; food image;
   formatting; insert; research fields; style; styling; technology-based; image
   recognition

---

UT 129
AR Orjuela-Garzon WA, 2024, FOODS, V13, DOI 10.3390/foods13213349
TI Systematic Literature Review of Barriers and Enablers to Implementing Food
   Informatics Technologies: Unlocking Agri-Food Chain Innovation
AU Orjuela-Garzon WA; Sandoval-Aldana A; Mendez-Arteaga JJ
TC 11
SO FOODS
PY 2024
AB access to food products is becoming more and more complex due to population
   growth , climate change , political and economic instability , disruptions
   in the global value chain , as well as changes in consumption dynamics and
   food insecurity . therefore , agri food chains face increasingly greater
   challenges in responding to these dynamics , where the digitalization of
   agri food systems has become an innovative alternative . however , efforts
   to adopt and use the technologies of the fourth industrial revolution (
   precision agriculture , smart agriculture , the industrial internet of
   things , and the internet of food , among others ) are still a challenge to
   improve efficiency in the links of production ( cultivation ) , processing (
   food production ) , and final consumption , from the perspective of the
   implementation of food informatics technologies that improve traceability ,
   authenticity , consumer confidence , and reduce fraud . this systematic
   literature review proposes the identification of barriers and enablers for
   the implementation of food informatics technologies in the links of the agri
   food chain . the prisma methodology was implemented for the identification ,
   screening , eligibility , and inclusion of articles from the scopus and
   clarivate databases . a total of 206 records were included in the in depth
   analysis , through which a total of 34 barriers to the adoption of food
   informatics technologies ( 13 for the production link , 12 for the
   processing link , and 9 for the marketing link ) and a total of 27 enablers
   ( 8 for the production link , 11 for the processing link , and 8 for the
   marketing link ) were identified . among the barriers analogous to the three
   links analyzed are privacy and information security and high investment and
   maintenance costs , while the analogous enablers are mainly government
   support
DE adoption; agri-chain; facilitators; food computing; inhibitors; internet of
   food; transfer

---

UT 130
AR Khanna S, 2024, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V1143 SCI, P234, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-53472-0_20
TI INDoRI: Indian Dataset of Recipes and Ingredients and Its Ingredient Network
AU Khanna S; Chattopadhyay C; Kundu S
TC 1
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2024
AB exploring and comprehending the culinary heritage of a nation holds a
   captivating allure . it offers insights into the structure and qualities of
   its cuisine . the endeavor becomes more accessible with the availability of
   a well organized dataset . in this paper , we present the introduction of
   indori ( indian dataset of recipes and ingredients ) , a compilation drawn
   from seven distinct online platforms , representing 18 regions within the
   indian subcontinent . this comprehensive geographical span ensures a
   portrayal of the rich variety within culinary practices . furthermore , we
   introduce a unique collection of stop words , referred to as isw (
   ingredient stop words ) , manually tuned for the culinary domain . we assess
   the validity of isw in the context of global cuisines beyond indian culinary
   tradition . subsequently , an ingredient network ( inn ) is constructed ,
   highlighting interconnections among ingredients sourced from different
   recipes . we delve into both the defining attributes of indori and the
   communal dimensions of inn . additionally , we outline the potential
   applications that can be developed leveraging this dataset . addressing one
   of the applications , we demonstrated a research problem on inn with a
   simple weighted community detection algorithm . furthermore , we provide a
   comparative analysis of the results obtained with this algorithm against
   those generated by two baselines
DE dataset; food computing; ingredient network; stop words

---

UT 131
AR Farzadnia R, 2025, SCI REP, V15, DOI 10.1038/s41598-025-13780-z
TI Implementation of circularity in food supply chain based on big data
   techniques using Einstein’s fuzzy methods
AU Farzadnia R; Shojaei P; Mirghaderi SH
TC 1
SO SCI REP
PY 2025
AB by emphasizing the principles of recycling , refurbishing , and reusing
   materials , circularity in supply chain management plays a pivotal role in
   waste reduction and resource efficiency enhancement . however , the adoption
   and implementation of circular supply chains ( cscs ) remain limited due to
   the substantial associated risks . research in circular supply chain
   management ( cscm ) suggests that integrating fourth industrial revolution
   technologies and big data analytics may offer a viable solution . despite
   growing interest in cscm , the lack of field specific data and a predominant
   focus on macro level studies have resulted in insufficient exploration of
   circularity barriers within iran s food supply chain . this study seeks to
   address this gap by prioritizing big data driven solutions to overcome these
   barriers . the research objectives include identifying and validating key
   obstacles within iran s food industry through an extensive literature review
   and content validity ratio analysis . the barriers were classified into five
   primary categories , with their respective weights determined using the
   fuzzy swara ( step wise weight assessment ratio analysis ) method . the most
   critical barriers identified were the absence of organizational
   infrastructure to support circular supply chain initiatives and the lack of
   essential systems for product traceability . subsequently , big data based
   techniques were evaluated and prioritized using einstein s fuzzy waspas (
   weighted aggregated sum product assessment ) method . combining the
   robustness of fuzzy logic with mcdm ( multi criteria decision making )
   techniques , this approach offers an effective framework for weighting
   circular supply chain barriers and prioritizing big data techniques under
   conditions of uncertainty . notably , this study represents the first
   application of einstein s fuzzy waspas method in circular supply chain
   management . the findings reveal that sna ( social network analysis ) and
   optimization models exert the most significant influence in mitigating
   implementation barriers . these insights can guide food industry managers in
   strategically adopting smart technologies to address key challenges in
   circular supply chain adoption
DE big data; circular supply chain; circularity; einsteins fuzzy; food industry
ID article; big data; catering service; content validity; female; food
   industry; fuzzy logic; human; infrastructure; iran; multi-criteria decision
   analysis; pharmaceutics; recycling; social network analysis; supply chain;
   supply chain management

---

UT 132
AR Lim RRX, 2024, ACS APPL NANO MAT, V7, P18523, DOI 10.1021/acsanm.3c06157
TI Portable Smartphone-Assisted Graphene Quantum Dots Sensing Platform for the
   Detection of Gut Microbial Metabolites
AU Lim RRX; Huang Q/2; Ambrosi A; Bonanni A
TC 6
SO ACS APPL NANO MAT
PY 2024
AB metabolomics research is gaining traction lately as there is a growing
   interest in studying the global relationship between human diseases and the
   metabolite network . the presence and concentration of beneficial gut
   derived metabolites depends on the individual s microbiota composition and
   diet , with direct metabolite based supplementation being an appealing
   option for those unable to produce them . this work serves as an approach in
   the direct detection of gut derived metabolites through a smartphone based
   approach , as a faster and cheaper alternative to more traditional
   techniques such as chromatography or the study of gut bacteria culture .
   urolithin , a beneficial gut microbial metabolite , was successfully
   detected with our developed smartphone based optical assay with low limits
   of detection of 0.257-0.422 m that were comparable to those measured with a
   fluorescence spectrophotometer or even better than some reported hplc
   methods . on top of a good sensitive detection with a reduced analysis time
   , the proposed ' turn off to on ' fluorescence sensing strategy that
   employed graphene quantum dots coupled with copper ( ii ) ions also
   distinguished urolithin metabotypes and exhibited good selectivity in the
   presence of other reducing compounds and phenolic analogs . our developed
   approach has demonstrated its versatility in direct gut derived metabolite
   detection in commercial dietary supplements , making it a user friendly tool
   for food and pharmaceutical product analysis . 2024 american chemical
   society .
DE graphene quantum dots; gut microbial metabolites; internet of food; optical
   sensor; smartphone-based detection; urolithin
ID biomolecules; copper compounds; dietary supplements; fluorescence; graphene;
   mhealth; nanocrystals; semiconductor quantum dots; smartphones; gut
   microbial metabolite; human disease; internet of food; metabolite networks;
   metabolomics; microbial metabolites; sensing platforms; smart phones;
   smartphone-based detection; urolithins; metabolites

---

UT 133
AR Yoshimaru N, 2025, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P274, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW67478.2025.00039
TI RICGraph: A Recipe-Ingredient-Compound Graph for Estimating the Nutritional
   Value of Recipes
AU Yoshimaru N; Kusu K; Kimura Y; Hatano K
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2025
AB understanding people s health conditions is essential in modern society ,
   and diet management , which is directly linked to understanding health
   conditions , is one of the most critical issues . calculating the
   nutritional value of meals is essential for diet management , but it is not
   easy . it requires specialist knowledge of the nutrients contained in each
   ingredient . if we could teach computers to learn about food , there would
   be a glimmer of hope for achieving this , but no method has yet been
   established . in this study , we propose a method for estimating the
   nutritional value of each recipe by constructing a heterogeneous graph using
   data from multiple data resources . our heterogeneous graph ( ricgraph ) is
   built based on the relationships between the recipe s ingredients , the
   nutrients contained in those ingredients , and the compounds that make up
   those nutrients . therefore , it can consider the relationships between the
   recipe and the compounds . by performing the learning process according to
   that structure , it is possible to understand which compounds affect the
   nutritional value of which recipes and accurately estimate the nutritional
   value . we estimate the values of the nutrients in the recipes , including
   protein , fat , saturated fatty acids , carbohydrates , sodium , and energy
   , and evaluate the accuracy of the estimates . comparative experiments with
   multiple llms of different types demonstrate the effectiveness of the
   proposed method
DE food computing; graph nural networks; heterogeneous graph; nutrient estimate
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; learning systems; nutrition; compound
   graphs; critical issues; food computing; graph nural network; health
   condition; heterogeneous graph; learn+; multiple data; nutrient estimate;
   nutritional value; nutrients

---

UT 134
AR Mignani AG, 2025, INT CONF PHOT OPT LASER TECHNOL, V1, P5, DOI
   10.5220/0013453400003902
TI Compact Optical Spectroscopy: The Future of Food Analytics in Your Pocket
AU Mignani AG; Ciaccheri L
TC 0
SO INT CONF PHOT OPT LASER TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB optical spectroscopy is a game changer for food analysis , offering a cost
   effective and eco friendly alternative to traditional methods . with rapid ,
   non destructive measurements that eliminate the need for harmful chemicals
   and solvents , optical spectroscopy is revolutionizing green analytics for
   food quality and safety . its minimal sample preparation saves time and
   resources , making it increasingly popular in the industry . moreover , by
   leveraging chemometrics or other ai algorithms to enhance the interpretation
   of complex data , optical spectroscopy allows for simultaneous analysis of
   multiple food components simultaneously . just a quick light shot , combined
   with advanced spectroscopic training , provides comprehensive quantitative
   and qualitative assessments of various nutraceutical indicators all at once
   . it is a smart , sustainable way to ensure the best in food quality and
   safety . while the mid infrared band is known for its detailed molecular
   fingerprinting , the near infrared ( nir ) region is generating a buzz in
   food applications . this is where the absorption of overtones and
   combinations of molecular vibrations involving c h , o h , and n h bonds
   occur , revealing crucial insights into food composition . photonic
   technologies initially developed for telecommunications , generated an
   explosion of compact light sources , detectors , micro spectrometers ,
   spectral sensors , fiber optics , and micro photonic components . these
   innovations are now transforming food control , providing compact , robust ,
   and low cost instruments that are perfect for online applications by users
   with minimal technical training . this surge in new devices is driving a
   steady increase in nir applications for food analysis . in this talk , we
   will explore the latest and most compact nir spectroscopy devices ,
   including pocket sized and smartphone connected models . we will discuss
   their applications in food analysis and showcase their potential . get ready
   to see how these powerful tools can revolutionize food quality and safety ,
   and discover opportunities for future collaborations . 2025 by scitepress
   science and technology publications , lda .

---

UT 135
AR Tian W/1, 2020, PROC IEEE INT CONF POWER INTELL COMPUT SYST ICPICS, P558,
   DOI 10.1109/ICPICS50287.2020.9202379
TI Selection of Optimal Packaging Methods for Different Food Based on Big Data
   Analysis
AU Tian W/1; Song X/1
TC 8
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF POWER INTELL COMPUT SYST ICPICS
PY 2020
AB in order to improve the ability of food packaging optimization and selection
   , combined with big data analysis method , different food best packaging
   methods are selected , and a large data classification technology for
   different food packaging methods based on fuzzy directivity classification
   is proposed . big data parametric model which reflects the best packaging
   characteristics of different foods is extracted , and the extracted
   packaging parameters are matched by adaptive fuzzy matching . then , the
   directional clustering method is used to classify and identify big data ,
   which is combined with the food packaging . the shelf life and food
   characteristics are processed by big data information fusion to realize the
   best match between food packaging and food characteristics . the retrieval
   node graph model grouping method is used to classify different food
   packaging data to optimize the selection of different food packaging methods
   . the simulation results show that , the method used to select the best
   packaging methods for different foods has better intelligence , improving
   the ability of classification and recognition of food packaging , and
   promoting the intelligent development of food packaging
DE big data analysis; classification and identification; food packaging; fuzzy
   clustering
ID big data; classification ( of information ); cluster analysis; graph theory;
   intelligent computing; packaging machines; classification and recognition;
   clustering methods; data analysis methods; data informations; food
   packaging; optimal packaging; packaging methods; parametric modeling;
   packaging

---

UT 136
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2021, EACL - CONF EUR CHAPTER ASSOC COMPUT LINGUIST PROC
   STUD RES WORK, P148, DOI 10.18653/v1/2021.eacl-srw.20
TI Semantic-aware transformation of short texts using word embeddings: An
   application in the food computing domain
AU Morales-Garzón A; Gómez-Romero J; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 2
SO EACL - CONF EUR CHAPTER ASSOC COMPUT LINGUIST PROC STUD RES WORK
PY 2021
AB most works in food computing focus on generating new recipes from scratch .
   however , there is a large number of new online recipes generated daily with
   a large number of users reviews , with recommendations to improve the recipe
   flavor and ideas to modify them . this fact encourages the use of these data
   for obtaining improved and customized versions . in this thesis , we propose
   an adaptation engine based on fine tuning a word embedding model . we will
   capture , in an unsupervised way , the semantic meaning of the recipe
   ingredients . we will use their word embedding representations to align them
   to external databases , thus enriching their data . the adaptation engine
   will use this food data to modify a recipe into another fitting specific
   user preferences ( e . g . , decrease caloric intake or make a recipe ) . we
   plan to explore different types of recipe adaptations while preserving
   recipe essential features such as cuisine style and essence simultaneously .
   we will also modify the rest of the recipe to the new changes to be
   reproducible . 2021 association for computational linguistics
ID computational linguistics; engines; semantics; adaptation engines; computing
   domain; embeddings; external database; fine tuning; food computing;
   semantic-aware; short texts; user reviews; user preferences; embeddings

---

UT 137
AR Nayak A/1, 2024, DIGIT TECHNOL CIRC ECON MODEL ENV RESOUR SUSTAIN, P127, DOI
   10.1201/9781003349877-9
TI Role of Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) Enabled Smart Warehousing for
   Sustainable Perishable Food Supply Chains
AU Nayak A/1; Patnaik A; Satpathy I; Tripathy S; Patnaik BCM
TC 3
SO DIGIT TECHNOL CIRC ECON MODEL ENV RESOUR SUSTAIN
PY 2024
AB a breakthrough solution arises in the shape of industrial internet of things
   ( iiot ) -powered smart warehousing against the backdrop of the food
   industry s recurring difficulties relating to food waste reduction ,
   resource optimization , and quality assurance for perishable items . the
   iiot is being used by this disruptive force to improve real time monitoring
   , inventory management , predictive analytics , and compliance management .
   it provides significant benefits by doing so , namely reduced food waste ,
   increased energy efficiency , and simpler processes . the major study goal
   is to understand how smart warehousing , powered by iiot , affects real time
   monitoring , inventory management , and predictive analytics in perishable
   food supply chains . furthermore , it tries to explore the larger
   consequences of iiot enabled smart warehouses on industry sustainability .
   extensive literature research was done to meet these objectives , generating
   44 relevant papers . the findings highlight the importance of iiot in
   enabling real time monitoring through continual sensor based data gathering
   , assuring perfect conditions and food safety . predictive analytics ,
   powered by iiot , improve inventory management by delivering data driven
   demand estimates , reducing overstocking , and improving stock visibility .
   smart warehousing powered by iiot transforms perishable food supply chains ,
   promoting sustainability via decreased food waste , increased energy
   efficiency , and responsible resource utilization , transforming the
   industry s future . 2024 crc press .

---

UT 138
AR Chen Y/4, 2023, NPJ SCI FOOD, V7, DOI 10.1038/s41538-023-00226-x
TI Review of visual analytics methods for food safety risks
AU Chen Y/4; Wu C; Zhang Q; Wu D
TC 18
SO NPJ SCI FOOD
PY 2023
AB with the availability of big data for food safety , more and more advanced
   data analysis methods are being applied to risk analysis and prewarning (
   rapw ) . visual analytics , which has emerged in recent years , integrates
   human and machine intelligence into the data analysis process in a visually
   interactive manner , helping researchers gain insights into large scale data
   and providing new solutions for rapw . this review presents the developments
   in visual analytics for food safety rapw in the past decade . firstly , the
   data sources , data characteristics , and analysis tasks in the food safety
   field are summarized . then , data analysis methods for four types of
   analysis tasks : association analysis , risk assessment , risk prediction ,
   and fraud identification , are reviewed . after that , the visualization and
   interaction techniques are reviewed for four types of characteristic data :
   multidimensional , hierarchical , associative , and spatial temporal data .
   finally , opportunities and challenges in this area are proposed , such as
   the visual analysis of multimodal food safety data , the application of
   artificial intelligence techniques in the visual analysis pipeline , etc .
   2023 , springer nature limited .

---

UT 139
AR Hassoun A, 2023, SUSTAIN FOOD SYST, V7, DOI 10.3389/fsufs.2023.1217813
TI Digital transformation in the agri-food industry: recent applications and
   the role of the COVID-19 pandemic
AU Hassoun A; Marvin HJP/1; Bouzembrak Y; Barba FJ; Castagnini JM/1; Pallarés
   N; Rabail R; Aadil RM; Bangar SP; Bhat R; Cropotova J; Maqsood S; Regenstein
   JM
TC 72
SO SUSTAIN FOOD SYST
PY 2023
AB providing food has become more complex because of climate change and other
   environmental and societal stressors , such as political instability , the
   growth in the world population , and outbreaks of new diseases , especially
   the covid 19 pandemic . in response to these challenges , the agri food
   industry has increased its efforts to shift to using more digital tools and
   other advanced technologies . the transition toward digital has been part of
   the fourth industrial revolution ( called industry 4.0 ) innovations that
   have and are reshaping most industries . this literature review discusses
   the potential of implementing digital technologies in the agri food industry
   , focusing heavily on the role of the covid 19 pandemic in fostering the
   adoption of greater digitalization of food supply chains . examples of the
   use of these digital innovations for various food applications , and the
   barriers and challenges will be highlighted . the trend toward digital
   solutions has gained momentum since the advent of industry 4.0 and
   implementations of these solutions have been accelerated by the outbreak of
   the covid 19 pandemic . important digital technology enablers that have high
   potential for mitigating the negative effects of both the current global
   health pandemic and the environmental crisis on food systems include
   artificial intelligence , big data , the internet of things , blockchain ,
   smart sensors , robotics , digital twins , and virtual and augmented reality
   . however , much remains to be done to fully harness the power of industry
   4.0 technologies and achieve widespread implementation of digitalization in
   the agriculture and food industries
DE artificial intelligence; automation; digitalization; industry 40; precision
   agriculture; robots; smart factory

---

UT 140
AR Stephenson MM, 2024, J EPIDEMIOL GLOB HEAL, V14, P787, DOI
   10.1007/s44197-024-00216-6
TI Trends in Burdens of Disease by Transmission Source (USA, 2005–2020) and
   Hazard Identification for Foods: Focus on Milkborne Disease
AU Stephenson MM; Coleman ME; Azzolina NA
TC 3
SO J EPIDEMIOL GLOB HEAL
PY 2024
AB background : robust solutions to global , national , and regional burdens of
   communicable and non communicable diseases , particularly related to diet ,
   demand interdisciplinary or transdisciplinary collaborations to effectively
   inform risk analysis and policy decisions . objective : you . s . outbreak
   data for 20052020 from all transmission sources were analyzed for trends in
   the burden of infectious disease and foodborne outbreaks . methods :
   outbreak data from 58 microsoft access data tables were structured using
   systematic queries and pivot tables for analysis by transmission source ,
   pathogen , and date . trends were examined using graphical representations ,
   smoothing splines , spearman s rho rank correlations , and non parametric
   testing for trend . hazard identification was conducted based on the number
   and severity of illnesses . results : the evidence does not support
   increasing trends in the burden of infectious foodborne disease , though
   strongly increasing trends were observed for other transmission sources .
   morbidity and mortality were dominated by person to person transmission .
   foodborne and other transmission sources accounted for small portions of the
   disease burden . foods representing the greatest hazards associated with the
   four major foodborne bacterial diseases were identified . fatal foodborne
   disease was dominated by fruits , vegetables , peanut butter , and
   pasteurized dairy . conclusion : the available evidence conflicts with
   assumptions of zero risk for pasteurized milk and increasing trends in the
   burden of illness for raw milk . for future evidence based risk management ,
   transdisciplinary risk analysis methodologies are essential to balance both
   communicable and non communicable diseases and both food safety and food
   security , considering scientific , sustainable , economic , cultural ,
   social , and political factors to support health and wellness for humans and
   ecosystems
DE etiology; food safety; food security; interagency food safety analytics
   collaboration ( ifsac ) food category; national outbreak reporting system (
   nors )
ID animals; cost of illness; disease outbreaks; food microbiology; foodborne
   diseases; hazard analysis and critical control points; humans; milk; united
   states; article; bacterial infection; communicable disease; diet; disease
   burden; disease severity; food poisoning; food safety; food security;
   foodborne transmission; fruit; morbidity; mortality; non-communicable
   disease; nonhuman; pasteurized milk; peanut; raw milk; risk assessment;
   united states; vegetable; animal; cost of illness; epidemic; epidemiology;
   food control; food poisoning; hazard assessment; human; microbiology; milk;
   procedures

---

UT 141
AR Sharma AK, 2022, ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV, P241, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-5141-0.ch013
TI Artificial intelligence for improving food quality
AU Sharma AK; Singh S/2; Kumar S/1
TC 2
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV
PY 2022
AB there is no doubt about the fact that artificial intelligence ( ai ) has
   stepped into improving quality of food throughout the world . artificial
   intelligence makes it possible to be done for machine to profit as a
   material or substance of fact examining facts from different data sources
   and make conclusions , and can perform most humanly tasks with more than the
   limits of act without any fault . due to the interference of humans in the
   production and packaging of food product , there is lack in maintaining the
   demand supply chain and also in safety of food to prevail over these issues
   of food industry . automation is the best possible solution . it wraps up an
   enormous amount of streaming data , often noted as ' big data , ' which
   brings fresh and new opportunities to watch agricultural and food processes
   . besides sensors , big data from social media is becoming important for the
   food industry . during this review , the authors present a summary of
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and its role in shaping further of agri food
   systems

---

UT 142
AR Hassoun A, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM,
   P1, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-15516-1.00001-3
TI Industry 4.0 technologies: principles and applications in agriculture and
   the food industry
AU Hassoun A; Bigliardi B
TC 7
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB food industry 4.0 denotes the applications of fourth industrial revolution
   technologies in the food sector , including agriculture and the food
   industry . this revolution is characterized by the fusion of digital ,
   physical , and biological food sciences , enabling promising opportunities
   in the agri food sector . industry 4.0 enabling technologies , such as
   artificial intelligence , big data , smart sensors , 3d food printing ,
   robotics , the internet of things , blockchain , and cloud computing are
   being increasingly harnessed to improve food quality , safety , traceability
   , and ultimately enhance food sustainability . currently , such advanced
   technologies are more and more leveraged in agriculture to achieve precision
   agriculture and smart farming , while the implementation of recent
   technological innovations in the food industry is paving the way for the
   establishment of smart food factories
DE automation; digitalization; fourth industrial revolution; precision
   agriculture; smart factory; smart farming

---

UT 143
AR Khanna S, 2024, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P222, DOI 10.1145/3632410.3632429
TI CookingINWild: Unleashing the Challenges of Indian Cuisine Cooking Videos
   for Action Recognition
AU Khanna S; Goyal S; Chattopadhyay C; Kundu S
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2024
AB accurate action recognition in cooking videos holds significant importance
   for various applications , such as recipe recommendation systems , dietary
   monitoring , and interactive cooking tutorials . in this research , we
   introduce the cookinginwild dataset , a novel collection of diverse indian
   cuisine cooking videos sourced from youtube , capturing real world ,
   uncontrolled scenarios . we tested our dataset with advanced action
   recognition models that usually work well . surprisingly , they did not do
   as great on our dataset because indian cooking actions are complex and our
   videos are not controlled . this shows we need special methods for these
   challenges . our work connects controlled and real world situations , making
   room for better action recognition in indian cooking videos . the
   cookinginwild dataset represents a valuable resource for exploring indian
   cooking techniques , encouraging the researchers to address these
   distinctive challenges and enhance action recognition in indian cooking
   videos
DE cooking video dataset; food computing; human-action recognition; indian
   cuisine
ID computer programming; action recognition; cooking video dataset; cooking
   videos; food computing; human-action recognition; indian cuisine; real-
   world; recognition models; video dataset; youtube; cooking

---

UT 144
AR Olanbiwoninu AA, 2025, MICROB ALLIES UNDERST PLANT-MICROBE INTERACTIONS
   SUSTAIN AGRIC, P327, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-90530-8_14
TI Food Safety in a Changing World: Challenges and Innovations
AU Olanbiwoninu AA; Awotundun TA; Popoola BM; Fashogbon RO; Banwo K
TC 0
SO MICROB ALLIES UNDERST PLANT-MICROBE INTERACTIONS SUSTAIN AGRIC
PY 2025
AB food safety assurance is paramount to prevent foodborne illness and
   safeguard public health . over time , various challenges have been
   encountered in ensuring food safety brought about by globalization , climate
   change , and urbanization . however , some key innovations have been
   employed to overcome these food safety challenges . this chapter explores
   the current challenges and innovations in achieving food safety . food trade
   globalization has made food supply chains longer and more complicated ,
   making it difficult to trace the origin of food and identify points of
   contamination . climate change is affecting farming lands by causing floods
   , droughts , and extreme heat waves leading to adverse effects on crops
   including compromised food integrity and the creation of suitable conditions
   for the proliferation of pathogenic microorganisms and toxins production .
   the innovative strategies utilized to preserve food safety standards and
   overcome food safety challenges are also discussed in this chapter . they
   include high pressure technology , cold plasma systems , nanotechnology ,
   and 3d printing . additional techniques include the use of big data and
   blockchain for food traceability , the use of cost effective and efficient
   automation and robotics for food quality as well as uniformity of products
   and employing the one health approach to identifying , preventing ,
   responding to threats caused by unsafe foods with an ultimate goal of
   safeguarding human health , animal health and environment
DE big data; blockchains; climate change; food quality; food safety; one health
ID chemical contamination; cost effectiveness; food microbiology; food safety;
   food supply; health risks; high pressure engineering; thermal processing (
   foods ); current; blockchain; food quality; food supply chain; foodborne
   illness; food safety; globalization; heatwaves; one health; safety
   assurance; big data

---

UT 145
AR Zuo E, 2023, ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL, V126, DOI 10.1016/j.engappai.2023.107016
TI SUCOLA: Self-adaptive structure refinement unsupervised contrastive learning
   framework for food safety risk early warning
AU Zuo E; Yan J; Aysa A; Chen C/2; Chen C; Ma H/1; Lv X; Ubul K
TC 10
SO ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL
PY 2023
AB food safety is a global issue . risk prevention and control of food physical
   and chemical testing ( pct ) data are critical . however , existing studies
   have not considered the risk status of qualified products near the detection
   limit . therefore , this paper presents a data driven paradigm to detect the
   combined risk of multiple indicators across products in real world food
   safety datasets for the first time . the following challenges exist to
   achieve this goal . ( 1 ) in real world scenarios , neighboring samples are
   somewhat correlated . however , capturing and quantifying the actual testing
   sample correlation network remains an open problem in food computing . ( 2 )
   the low frequency nature of the unqualified samples leads to label imbalance
   in the data . ( 3 ) labeling dependency limits the application scenarios .
   this article proposes a novel self supervised framework ( sucola ) to
   address the abovementioned challenges . that jointly learns the optimal
   graph topology and also inferences the connections between every product
   node and its well designed subgraph , helping to resist label imbalance . we
   applied it to a real world sterilized pct dataset from a province in china .
   extensive experiments show that sucola performance is outstandingly better
   than several baselines of the current graph self supervision field .
   meanwhile , we conducted generalizability experiments on five well known
   benchmark datasets . the proposed sucola surpasses the current state of the
   art by a considerable margin ( 0.39 % 8.7 % auc ) on public datasets . thus
   , our study provides a new idea for early warning research on pct data in
   food computing and fills the gap in the study of structural learning under
   category imbalance
DE contrastive learning; food computing; graph structure learning; label
   imbalance; unsupervised learning
ID machine learning; safety testing; topology; chemical testing; contrastive
   learning; food computing; food safety; graph structure learning; graph
   structures; label imbalance; physical testing; structure learning; testing
   data; food safety

---

UT 146
AR Zhou J, 2025, FUTUR FOODS, V12, DOI 10.1016/j.fufo.2025.100847
TI Building an intelligent food assurance system based on DevOps: A review
AU Zhou J; Brereton P; Campbell K
TC 0
SO FUTUR FOODS
PY 2025
AB driven by digital transformation , digital technologies are being
   progressively applied within food systems to ensure the integrity ,
   authenticity , and resilience of food supply chains . enabling these systems
   and technologies to adapt more profoundly to supply chain requirements and
   integrate effectively into industrial applications remains a challenge . the
   devops methodology , traditionally associated with computer science , is now
   being explored in non traditional areas , such as food systems , as its
   principles of agility , responsiveness , and continuous improvement can
   significantly enhance the performance of future intelligent food systems .
   this study reviews literature , case evidence , and existing technical
   models to examine how devops practices might be applied from system planning
   through to daily operations . the review reveals that the complete
   application of devops in this field is rare . however , its principles can
   provide practical direction for the development of intelligent food
   assurance systems ( ifas ) . the review identifies potential technological
   opportunities within devops and proposes a conceptual framework for applying
   them to the food supply chain . meanwhile , achieving a balance between
   collaborative efficiency and system security within the devops based ifas
   framework will become a key consideration for future development
DE devops; food assurance; food safety; food systems; internet of food; iot

---

UT 147
AR Ding H/1, 2024, FOOD FERMENT IND, V50, P353, DOI
   10.13995/j.cnki.11-1802/ts.039008
TI Applications of machine learning and big data in food industry;
   [机器学习和大数据在食品领域的应用]
AU Ding H/1; Tian J; Xie Z; Shen S; Cui X/1; Wang Z/7
TC 4
SO FOOD FERMENT IND
PY 2024
AB in recent years , the food industry has undergone significant changes .
   globalization , technological advancements , and evolving consumer demands
   have driven continuous development and innovation within the sector . as an
   advanced emerging technology , machine learning and big data play an
   increasingly critical role in the food industry . the application of machine
   learning and big data in the food sector is closely intertwined . machine
   learning utilizes pattern recognition and data analysis to extract key
   information from food production and supply chains , while big data
   technologies support the processing of large scale datasets , providing a
   more comprehensive decision making perspective . together , these
   technologies propel innovation in food research and industrial development .
   in depth analysis of large datasets using machine learning can predict food
   trends , improve production processes , and optimize supply chains . this
   paper presents the current state of application of machine learning and big
   data in the food industry , covering machine learning and deep learning
   technologies , adaptive neuro fuzzy inference systems , and the
   multidimensional applications of machine learning in food detection , such
   as food detection techniques that combine machine learning algorithms with
   near infrared spectroscopy , applications of computer vision in the food
   sector , and real time food detection technologies that integrate machine
   learning algorithms with smart sensors . it analyzes the technical
   challenges faced by big data ( such as issues with data authenticity ,
   completeness , and difficulties in data labeling ) , proposes potential
   solutions ( including blockchain technology and data augmentation and
   preprocessing techniques ) , and anticipates future development trends of
   machine learning technologies in food research . furthermore , with the
   advent of ' food industry 4 . 0 , ' the food sector is poised for rapid
   growth , and cutting edge technologies derived from machine learning such as
   smart agriculture , robotic farming , drones , 3d printing , and digital
   twins will further emerge . in light of these numerous opportunities for
   innovation and improvement , the food industry will also need to address
   challenges related to intelligent production and sustainability . finally ,
   the paper discusses potential challenges and future directions for
   development within the food industry . 2024 china national research
   institute of food and fermentation industries co . ltd
DE big data; emerging technologies; food industry; machine learning; smart
   sensors
ID agricultural robots; chains; deep learning; food industry; fuzzy inference;
   fuzzy systems; industrial research; industry 40; large datasets; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; near infrared spectroscopy; pattern
   recognition; smart agriculture; smart sensors; supply chains; consumer
   demands; emerging technologies; food detection; food industries; food
   research; food sector; globalization; machine learning algorithms; machine
   learning; technological advancement; infrared devices

---

UT 148
AR Chai M, 2026, PATTERN RECOGN, V176, DOI 10.1016/j.patcog.2026.113280
TI Few-shot incremental food recognition via cross-domain guided pseudo-targets
AU Chai M; Wei L/1; Qian Z; Zhang R/1; Zhu Y
TC 0
SO PATTERN RECOGN
PY 2026
AB the explosive growth of global food culture has expanded the application
   scope of visual recognition . however , it has introduced complex challenges
   arising from high intra class variability and inter class similarity .
   however , existing systems struggle to address fine grained confusion and
   the trade off between retaining old knowledge and adapting to new
   information . traditional methods are constrained by a heavy reliance on
   large scale datasets , whereas emerging zero shot techniques are prone to
   semantic hallucination when encountering unseen dishes , thereby posing a
   severe challenge to precise recognition . to address these challenges , we
   propose the cross domain guided food pseudo target estimation ( cfpe )
   framework , establishing a novel paradigm that is vision led and
   semantically enhanced . first , to tackle the scarcity of incremental data ,
   we utilize cross domain adversarial training and an adaptive mask generator
   to synthesize high quality pseudo targets , thus establishing stable
   geometric anchors within the feature space . second , by integrating bessel
   estimation loss of hypersphere ( belh ) and perturbation margin enhanced
   prototype regularization ( pmepr ) , we geometrically reconstruct the
   hyperspherical manifold distribution of features , effectively correcting
   estimation biases induced by few shot samples . crucially , we introduce a
   food factor based visual semantic consistency ( fvsc ) constraint , which
   explicitly decouples fine grained visual confusion by injecting structured
   semantics . this is complemented by a depth aware feature decoupling
   strategy to dynamically balance the plasticity and stability of the model .
   experimental results demonstrate that cfpe achieves state of the art
   performance across multiple benchmark datasets . it not only significantly
   improves incremental learning accuracy but also exhibits exceptional
   robustness in recognizing high entropy food images
DE cross-domain adversarial adaptation; few-shot learning; food computing;
   hypersphere embedding; virtual prototype estimation
ID benchmarking; large datasets; semantics; software prototyping; zero-shot
   learning; cross-domain; cross-domain adversarial adaptation; embeddings;
   few-shot learning; fine grained; food computing; hyper-spheres; hypersphere
   embedding; target estimations; virtual prototype estimation; economic and
   social effects

---

UT 149
AR Thinakaran J, 2023, STUD BIG DATA, V119, P257, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-19-8730-4_9
TI Blockchain in Big Data for Agriculture Supply Chain
AU Thinakaran J; Paul S; Beulah Christalin Latha C; Jacob G
TC 6
SO STUD BIG DATA
PY 2023
AB agricultural food supply chain is a complex system starting from the
   production of food on a farm to the table of the consumer involving multiple
   stakeholders and a variety of processes . in recent years , the food supply
   chain has grown rapidly across nations , with customers demanding fresh ,
   exotic foods all year round . the global shutdown due to the covid pandemic
   has further complicated the food supply chain which has become prone to
   various contaminations and adulterations . adulterated food is highly toxic
   to human health leading to several health issues , nutritional deficiencies
   , kidney disorders , and failure of vital organs . the existing systems used
   in the food supply chain do not provide enough transparency , traceability ,
   food safety , or consumer trust . with today s big data integrated supply
   chains , such technologies are highly ineffective . in order to ensure food
   safety and consumer satisfaction , this chapter proposes using blockchain as
   an efficient technology to provide transparency , traceability , and trust
   in food supply chains . the chapter discusses the significance of smart
   agriculture and how blockchain might help agricultural supply chains that
   have big data incorporated overcome their difficulties . a thorough
   description of exclusive applications of blockchain in big data integrated
   food supply chains is provided . the chapter also describes how blockchain
   is integrated into each stage of the food supply chain management process
   and explores the challenges in implementing blockchain in big data
   integrated food supply chain systems
DE agriculture; big data; blockchain; food safety; food supply chain
ID agricultural technology; blockchain; food safety; food supply; information
   management; supply chain management; supply chains; transparency;
   agricultural foods; blockchain; existing systems; food supply chain; food
   safety; health issues; human health; integrated supply chain; kidney
   disorders; multiple stakeholders; big data

---

UT 150
AR Acharya P, 2025, ICRTEECT - INT CONF RECENT TRENDS ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT
   TECHNOL, DOI 10.1109/ICRTEECT67512.2025.11448664
TI Prediction of Individual Taste Preferences from Climatic, Cultural and
   Lifestyle Features using Machine Learning
AU Acharya P; Acharya S/1
TC 0
SO ICRTEECT - INT CONF RECENT TRENDS ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB prediction of human taste preferences is a complex classification task
   decided by a variety of climatic , cultural , lifestyle and other factors .
   this work uses supervised machine learning to model individual taste
   preferences sweet , salty , sour , and spicy based on lifestyle , climatic
   and geo cultural determinants . a dataset with 10,000 observations was
   obtained from the kaggle website , having features like age , sleep cycle ,
   exercise habits , climate zone , and historical cuisine exposure . data
   preprocessing was done using imputation for handling missing values ,
   synthetic minority oversampling technique ( smote ) for class balancing ,
   manual encoding for handling categorical values and feature normalization .
   twelve classification models were evaluated : logistic regression , k
   nearest neighbors ( knn ) , support vector machine ( svm ) , naive bayes ,
   decision tree , random forest , xgboost , adaboost , gradient boosting ,
   catboost , lightgbm , and a multi layer perceptron ( mlp ) . experiments
   were conducted using both 80:20 and 70:30 train test splits . the mlp model
   achieved the highest performance , giving an accuracy of 89.57 % with a
   70:30 split and an accuracy of 88.10 % with a 80:20 split . the logistic
   regression model achieved the lowest performance , giving an accuracy of
   51.07 % with a 70:30 split and an accuracy of 50.45 % with 80:20 split .
   these results demonstrate the potential of ann based frameworks in capturing
   complex sensory preferences , establishing a foundation for personalized
   nutrition and targeted food product development using climatic , cultural
   and lifestyle data
DE food informatics; machine learning; multilayer perceptron; predictive
   modeling; taste preference classification
ID adaptive boosting; balancing; barium compounds; classification ( of
   information ); food products; learning systems; logistic regression; nearest
   neighbor search; random forests; support vector regression; classification
   tasks; cultural determinants; food informatic; informatics; machine
   learning; multilayers perceptrons; performance; predictive models;
   supervised machine learning; taste preference classification; decision trees

---

UT 151
AR Gilal NU, 2021, EUROGRAPHICS ITAL CHAPTER PROC SMART TOOLS APP GR STAG, P73,
   DOI 10.2312/stag.20211476
TI SlowDeepFood: a food computing framework for regional gastronomy
AU Gilal NU; Al-Thelaya K/1; Schneider J; She J; Agus M/1
TC 3
SO EUROGRAPHICS ITAL CHAPTER PROC SMART TOOLS APP GR STAG
PY 2021
AB food computing recently emerged as a stand alone research field , in which
   artificial intelligence , deep learning , and data science methodologies are
   applied to the various stages of food production pipelines . food computing
   may help end users in maintaining healthy and nutritious diets by alerting
   of high caloric dishes and / or dishes containing allergens . a backbone for
   such applications , and a major challenge , is the automated recognition of
   food by means of computer vision . it is therefore no surprise that
   researchers have compiled various food data sets and paired them with well
   performing deep learning architecture to perform said automatic
   classification . however , local cuisines are tied to specific geographic
   origins and are woefully underrepresented in most existing data sets . this
   leads to a clear gap when it comes to food computing on regional and
   traditional dishes . while one might argue that standardized data sets of
   world cuisine cover the majority of applications , such a stance would
   neglect systematic biases in data collection . it would also be at odds with
   recent initiatives such as slowfood , seeking to support local food
   traditions and to preserve local contributions to the global variation of
   food items . to help preserve such local influences , we thus present a full
   end to end food computing network that is able to : ( i ) create custom
   image data sets semi automatically that represent traditional dishes . ( ii
   ) train custom classification models based on the efficientnet family using
   transfer learning . ( iii ) deploy the resulting models in mobile
   applications for real time inference of food images acquired through smart
   phone cameras . we not only assess the performance of the proposed deep
   learning architecture on standard food data sets ( e . g . , our model
   achieves 91.91 % accuracy on eth s food 101 ) , but also demonstrate the
   performance of our models on our own , custom data sets comprising local
   cuisine , such as the pizza styles data set and gcc 30 . the former
   comprises 14 categories of pizza styles , whereas the latter contains 30
   middle eastern dishes from the gulf cooperation council members
ID classification ( of information ); learning systems; network architecture;
   smartphones; transfer learning; computing frameworks; dataset; food
   computing; food production; learning architectures; performance; production
   pipelines; research fields; science methodologies; stand -alone; deep
   learning

---

UT 152
AR Lan S, 2022, INT TRANS ELECR ENERGY SYS, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/1917704
TI Accurate Real-Life Chinese Dish Recognition
AU Lan S; Wan C; Pang Y; Jin M; Yu S
TC 2
SO INT TRANS ELECR ENERGY SYS
PY 2022
AB deep learning is a new research direction in the field of machine learning ,
   which was introduced into machine learning to bring it closer to its
   original goal . accurate dish recognition becomes increasingly important in
   the multimedia community since it can help cuisine recommendation , calorie
   management , service improvement , and other food computing tasks . many
   novel approaches have been developed on web recipes and menu pictures ,
   while few are concerned real life dish image analysis . in this study , a
   deep learning based prototype system is deployed in a chinese canteen , and
   28 dish types , 16,904 images , and 45,061 instances have been collected .
   specifically , in the prototype system , three practical issues are explored
   , including the backbone network selection , the training strategy
   determination , and the minimum number of samples for model upgrading .
   experimental results suggest that fine tuned faster rcnn can serve as the
   backbone network of the prototype system since it outperforms the other four
   fine tuned networks on dish recognition ( accuracy , 98.10 % . recall ,
   97.20 % . map ( mean average precession ) , 98.30 % ) and satisfies real
   time requirement ( 0.15 second per image ) . meanwhile , the transferred
   backbone network achieves superior results ( map , 96.48 % ) over the same
   architecture trained from image scratches ( map , 87.84 % ) . on model
   upgrading , a good ( map , 91.34 % ) to better ( map , 96.48 % ) outcome is
   obtained when the training size is increased from 50 to 200 samples per dish
   type , and 150 and more instances should be annotated if a new dish type is
   added to the system s recognition list . conclusively , the real life
   deployment and evaluation of the prototype system indicate that deep
   learning is full of potential to enhance customer experience through
   accurate daily dish recognition . 2022 shanzhen lan et al .
ID learning systems; back-bone network; computing-task; food computing; image
   analysis; machine learning; management service; multimedia community;
   prototype system; service improvement; web recipes; deep learning

---

UT 153
AR Perçin S, 2022, ENV SCI POLLUT RES, V29, P83220, DOI
   10.1007/s11356-022-21680-2
TI Evaluating the circular economy–based big data analytics capabilities of
   circular agri-food supply chains: the context of Turkey
AU Perçin S
TC 35
SO ENV SCI POLLUT RES
PY 2022
AB agri food supply chains ( afscs ) are one of the significant building blocks
   of agricultural production , and their sustainability aims are advanced by
   big data analytics ( bda ) and the circular economy ( ce ) . as access to
   safe , healthy , and high quality food has become increasingly difficult ,
   afscs need to leverage their capabilities for ce based bda to overcome
   sustainability challenges . however , a significant gap exists in the
   relevant literature on how to identify such capabilities to achieve
   sustainability goals . to build ce based bda capabilities , organizations
   need to orchestrate their resources and competencies and align them well
   with specific sustainability targets . in consideration of these issues ,
   this study was conducted to identify the aforementioned capabilities and
   their effects on the performance of circular afscs from the perspective of a
   developing country . to this end , a three stage multi criteria decision
   making model was developed and used in the examination of circular afscs in
   turkey . the findings revealed that supply chain management ( scm ) was the
   most important capability , followed by organizational , technical ,
   environmental , economic , and social capabilities . furthermore , big data
   infrastructure was the most important sub capability ahead of financial
   benefits , top management support , sustainability and resilience , and food
   waste reduction . finally , productivity improvement was determined as the
   most significant impact of ce based bda capabilities on circular afscs .
   this study can serve as a reference for managers and policy makers on what
   bda capabilities should be developed for circular afscs . it also
   contributes to addressing the agricultural production issues encountered by
   developing countries . 2022 , the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature .
DE agri-food supply chain; big data analytics; circular economy; intuitionistic
   fuzzy-dematel; mcdm
ID data science; food; food supply; refuse disposal; turkey; waste management;
   turkey; agricultural production; data assimilation; economic conditions;
   food supply; fuzzy mathematics; infrastructure; supply chain management;
   catering service; food; turkey ( bird ); waste disposal; waste management

---

UT 154
AR Rodriguez RG, 2026, FOOD STRUCT, V48, DOI 10.1016/j.foostr.2026.100530
TI Food microstructure in the data science era: From images to values
AU Rodriguez RG; Folmer I; Saalbrink J; Schlangen M; Soto-Aguilar D; Clausen
   MP; Bonilla JC
TC 0
SO FOOD STRUCT
PY 2026
AB quantifying microstructure in foods holds the key to understanding how food
   materials are hierarchically structured at different length scales . this
   review highlights the efforts toward quantitative analysis of food
   microstructure and aims at facilitating the field of food microstructures to
   move toward a quantitative regime . consensus on classifications of food
   microstructure is currently still missing and can therefore lead to multiple
   interpretations . in addition , the microstructures of foods are widely
   varied and typically not as clear or distinct as in other disciplines . data
   science approaches , including machine learning and deep learning , are not
   new to the field of image analysis . they are , however , only starting to
   be used for segmentation and quantification of food microstructure . overall
   , the shift in focus to a more quantitative science will in turn move the
   field toward the rational design of foods , including the tailored design of
   textural and other structure related attributes of food
DE data science; deep learning; food microstructure; image analysis; image
   processing; machine learning; microscopy; quantitative

---

UT 155
AR Khakimov B, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V159, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104997
TI Foodomics: A lever to avoid the Darwinian boomerang of malnutrition and
   compromised nutritional value in the rapidly emerging green food transition
AU Khakimov B; Aru V; Czaja TP; Engelsen SB
TC 7
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : since the 18th century , the industrial revolution has brought
   tremendous success in food production , enabling the feeding of more than 8
   billion people . however , the success comes with consequences what we call
   the darwinian boomerang of industrialization . the consequences include
   accelerated global warming , increasing greenhouse gas emissions , water
   scarcity , overexploitation of natural resources , desertification ,
   eutrophication , loss of biodiversity , and accumulation of alarmingly large
   amounts of industrial waste including plastics and resilient chemicals .
   addressing these challenges and meeting the growing demand for sustainable
   and nutritious food necessitates a paradigm shift , known as the green food
   transition , supported by multidisciplinary foodomics research . scope and
   approach : this review discusses key enablers of the rapidly emerging green
   food transition , including a shift toward plant based diets , gene editing
   , smart agriculture , cellular agriculture , gentle food processing , and
   circular economy models . the role of foodomics within each enabler is
   highlighted , providing examples of how multidisciplinary foodomics research
   can prevent a darwinian boomerang characterized by malnutrition ,
   compromised nutritional quality , emergence of novel foodborne diseases ,
   and increased food intolerances . key findings and conclusions : green food
   transition initiatives are essential for achieving future food security and
   environmental sustainability , but nutritional concerns persist . only a
   minor fraction of current research integrates foodomics , despite its
   critical role in ensuring food safety and nutritional adequacy . most
   discoveries of unforeseen harmful compounds come from inductive studies on
   industrial food processing or dietary interventions . systematic foodomics
   assessments of emerging sustainable food systems are urgently required to
   evaluate both short and long term human health impacts
DE circular economy; dark foodome; food analytics; food safety; sustainability
ID 18th century; circular economy; dark foodome; food analytic; food
   production; food safety; green foods; industrial revolutions;
   industrialization; nutritional value; circular economy

---

UT 156
AR Biegańska M, 2025, AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG, P88, DOI
   10.1039/9781837679119-00088
TI IoT and Big Data in the Food Industry: Future Trends
AU Biegańska M
TC 0
SO AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG
PY 2025
AB this chapter presents the possibilities and applications of internet of
   things ( iot ) technology in the food industry . the architecture of iot
   systems is shown and some of the technologies are introduced , such as
   blockchain , edge and cloud computing , big data , and artificial
   intelligence . examples of applications in smart agriculture , precision
   agriculture and food traceability are indicated like livestock monitoring ,
   smart irrigation systems , yield prediction , and food anti counterfeit
   systems using different sensors and rfid tags . food waste and sustainable
   agriculture are also addressed . the royal society of chemistry 2025
ID big data; chemical contamination; food chemistry; food industry; food waste;
   livestock; precision agriculture; smart agriculture; sustainable
   agriculture; blockchain; cloud computing; edge computing; food industries;
   food traceabilitys; future trends; internet of things technologies;
   irrigation systems; precision agriculture; smart agricultures; internet of
   things

---

UT 157
AR Omar E, 2026, COMPUT, V15, DOI 10.3390/computers15010034
TI Exploring Risk Factors of Mycotoxin Contamination in Fresh Eggs Using
   Machine Learning Techniques
AU Omar E; Alsaidi E; Aref A; Omar S; Mustafa WB; Milhem H
TC 0
SO COMPUT
PY 2026
AB mycotoxins are toxic compounds produced by certain fungi , whose health
   effects may be significant when they contaminate fresh eggs . conventional
   methods of mycotoxin analysis , while accurate , are labor intensive , time
   consuming , and impractical for large scale screening applications . this
   study attempts to use using machine learning techniques to predict the
   concentration and presence of deoxynivalenol ( don ) , aflatoxin b1 ( afb1 )
   , and ochratoxin a ( ota ) in fresh eggs from jordan . rather than replacing
   analytical detection methods , the proposed approach can enable a risk based
   prioritization of samples for laboratory testing by identifying high risk
   samples based on environmental and production factors . a dataset consisting
   of 1250 poultry egg samples collected between january and july 2024 under
   several factors involving environmental conditions and chemical assay
   results regarding mycotoxin content in eggs was used . several machine
   learning algorithms were used in this study to build predictive models ,
   including decision trees , support vector machines , and neural networks .
   the results indicate that machine learning can accurately and reliably
   predict mycotoxin contamination , which demonstrates the potential for
   integrating machine learning into food safety protocols . this study
   contributes toward developing predictive analytics for food safety and lays
   the groundwork for future research aimed at improving contamination
   monitoring systems
DE aflatoxin b1; jordan; machine learning; mycotoxins; poultry eggs; risk
   assessment
ID chemical contamination; contamination; diagnosis; food safety; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; mycotoxins; predictive analytics; safety
   engineering; support vector machines; aflatoxin b1; food safety; health
   effects; jordan; machine learning techniques; machine learning; poultry
   eggs; risk factors; risks assessments; toxic compounds; risk assessment

---

UT 158
AR Theera-Ampornpunt N, 2023, TRAIT SIGNAL, V40, P1187, DOI 10.18280/ts.400335
TI Optimizing Hyperparameters for Thai Cuisine Recognition via Convolutional
   Neural Networks
AU Theera-Ampornpunt N; Treepong P
TC 3
SO TRAIT SIGNAL
PY 2023
AB automated food logging is an essential component of modern dietary
   management , and food recognition plays a crucial role in this process .
   however , the recognition of dishes and food items unique to specific
   cultures or regions remains a less explored area . in this study , we focus
   on the automatic recognition of thai cuisine , employing transfer learning
   techniques and comparing the performance of 20 state of the art
   convolutional neural networks . we investigate the impact of hyperparameters
   , such as batch size and image resolution , as well as image preprocessing
   methods on classification accuracy and training time for the top performing
   models . our evaluation , using the thfood 50 dataset consisting of 15,688
   images across 50 classes , demonstrates that the optimal model achieves top
   1 and top 5 classification accuracies of 90.44 % and 99.97 % , respectively
   , representing a significant improvement over previous results . we find
   that increasing image resolution substantially enhances accuracy , while
   batch size exerts a negligible effect . moreover , cropping the edges of
   images can further improve accuracy , but this technique is only effective
   when employing low image resolution . our findings contribute to the
   development of advanced food recognition algorithms , with potential
   applications in dietary management and nutrition planning . 2023 lavoisier
DE food computing; image recognition; object recognition; thai food
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; image enhancement; image recognition; learning systems; nutrition;
   object recognition; automatic recognition; batch sizes; classification
   accuracy; convolutional neural network; dietary management; food computing;
   hyper-parameter; objects recognition; thai food; transfer learning; image
   resolution

---

UT 159
AR Ada N, 2021, SUSTAIN, V13, DOI 10.3390/su13126812
TI Analyzing barriers of circular food supply chains and proposing industry 4.0
   solutions
AU Ada N; Kazancoglu Y; Sezer MD; Ede-Senturk C; Ozer I; Ram M
TC 156
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2021
AB the concept of the circular economy ( ce ) has gained importance worldwide
   recently since it offers a wider perspective in terms of promoting
   sustainable production and consumption with limited resources . however ,
   few studies have investigated the barriers to ce in circular food supply
   chains . accordingly , this paper presents a systematic literature review of
   136 papers from 2010 to 2020 from wos and scopus databases regarding these
   barriers to understand ce implementation in food supply chains . the
   barriers are classified under seven categories : ' cultural ' , ' business
   and business finance ' , ' regulatory and governmental ' , ' technological ,
   ' managerial ' , ' supply chain management ' , ' knowledge and skills ' .
   the findings show the need to identify barriers preventing the transition to
   ce . the findings also indicate that these challenges to ce can be overcome
   through industry 4.0 , which includes a variety of technologies , such as
   the internet of things ( iot ) , cloud technologies , machine learning , and
   blockchain . specifically , machine learning can offer support by making
   workflows more efficient through the forecasting and analytical capabilities
   of food supply chains . blockchain and big data analytics can provide the
   necessary support to establish legal systems and improve environmental
   regulations since transparency is a crucial issue for taxation and
   incentives systems . thus , ce can be promoted via adequate laws , policies
   , and innovative technologies
DE circular economy; food supply chain; industry 40; sustainability

---

UT 160
AR Ruan M, 2020, INT J PERFORM ENG, V16, P757, DOI
   10.23940/ijpe.20.05.p9.757765
TI Quality management of the food cold chain system based on big data analysis
AU Ruan M
TC 6
SO INT J PERFORM ENG
PY 2020
AB the condition monitoring of food cold chain quality management systems is
   the key to ensuring the stable operation of food cold chain quality
   management systems . in the process of food cold chain quality management
   systems , it is necessary to accurately detect and identify the quality of
   food cold chain systems , and the quality management technology of food cold
   chain systems based on big data analysis is put forward . the statistical
   analysis model of food cold chain system quality management evaluation is
   constructed . through the same kind of mapping and closed frequency complex
   item collection evaluation method , the hierarchical cluster analysis of
   data is carried out . the criterion of food cold chain quality management
   systems can be obtained by the sigma test . in the statistical regression
   analysis model , the attribute set of food cold chain quality distribution
   big data in food cold chain quality management systems is constructed .
   there are six secondary indexes under the management scale of the enterprise
   , five secondary indexes under the warehousing management level , four
   secondary indicators under the logistics level , three information indexes
   under the information level , and three evaluation indexes under the
   customer management level . by using this evaluation system , the
   development status and operation status of fresh cold chain logistics can be
   reflected comprehensively , and the quality management of food cold chain
   systems can be determined . it is found that the reliability of this method
   for quality management of food cold chain systems is good . 2020 totem
   publisher , inc
DE big data analysis; cold chain system; food; quality management
ID cluster analysis; condition monitoring; hierarchical systems; information
   management; quality control; quality management; regression analysis;
   analysis models; big data analyze; cold chain systems; evaluation methods;
   food cold chains; management level; management technologies; quality
   management systems; stable operation; system quality; big data

---

UT 161
AR Li D, 2022, PROC CONF ASIA-PACIFIC CHAPTER ASSOC COMPUT LINGUIST INT JT CONF
   NAT LANG PROCESS AACL-IJCNLP, V1, P653, DOI 10.18653/v1/2022.aacl-main.50
TI Food Knowledge Representation Learning with Adversarial Substitution
AU Li D; Zaki MJ
TC 5
SO PROC CONF ASIA-PACIFIC CHAPTER ASSOC COMPUT LINGUIST INT JT CONF NAT LANG
   PROCESS AACL-IJCNLP
PY 2022
AB knowledge graph embedding ( kge ) has been well studied in general domains ,
   but has not been examined for food computing . to fill this gap , we perform
   knowledge representation learning over a food knowledge graph ( kg ) . we
   employ a pre trained language model to encode entities and relations , thus
   emphasizing contextual information in food kgs . the model is trained on two
   tasks predicting a masked entity from a given triple from the kg and
   predicting the plausibility of a triple . analysis of food substitutions
   helps in dietary choices for enabling healthier eating behaviors . previous
   work in food substitutions mainly focuses on semantic similarity while
   ignoring the context . it is also hard to evaluate the substitutions due to
   the lack of an adequate validation set , and further , the evaluation is
   subjective based on perceived purpose . to tackle this problem , we propose
   a collection of adversarial sample generation strategies for different food
   substitutions over our learnt kge . we propose multiple strategies to
   generate high quality context aware recipe and ingredient substitutions and
   also provide generalized ingredient substitutions to meet different user
   needs . the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed knowledge graph
   learning method and the following attack strategies are verified by
   extensive evaluations on a large scale food kg
ID computational linguistics; food ingredients; knowledge graph; learning
   systems; contextual information; eating behavior; food computing; graph
   embeddings; knowledge graphs; knowledge representation; language model;
   sample generations; semantic similarity; validation sets; semantics

---

UT 162
AR Tao Q, 2021, FOODS, V10, DOI 10.3390/foods10092203
TI Application research: Big data in food industry
AU Tao Q; Ding H/2; Wang H/3; Cui X/1
TC 45
SO FOODS
PY 2021
AB a huge amount of data is being produced in the food industry , but the
   application of big data regulatory , food enterprise , and food related
   media data is still in its infancy . each data source has the potential to
   develop the food industry , and big data has broad application prospects in
   areas like social co governance , exploit of consumption markets ,
   quantitative production , new dishes , take out services , precise nutrition
   and health management . however , there are urgent problems in technology ,
   health and sustainable development that need to be solved to enable the
   application of big data to the food industry
DE application prospect; big data; food industry; sustainable development

---

UT 163
AR Malik M, 2023, EAI/SPRINGER INNO COMM COMP, P231, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-19711-6_11
TI Artificial Intelligence and Data Science in Food Processing Industry
AU Malik M; Gahlawat VK; Mor RS/1; Agnihotri S; Panghal A/1; Rahul K; Emanuel N
TC 12
SO EAI/SPRINGER INNO COMM COMP
PY 2023
AB digital transformations and industrial automation help improve productivity
   and operational efficiency at a mass scale without compromising quality and
   consistency in the food processing industry . this chapter discusses how
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) can effectively enhance food hygiene , safety
   and quality , efficient production and supply chain by efficient decision
   making , food waste management , and smart sorting and packaging solution
   through economic resource utilization by reducing errors and saving capital
   investments . the convergence of data science and ai can further improve the
   delivery of items at food outlets , boosting on demand production and
   predicting sales performance through algorithms . it can drastically improve
   shelf life , packaging , food safety with a more translucent supply chain ,
   and quality control by identifying customer needs . automation in the food
   industry will monitor each processing stage and thus improve its scale up ,
   inventory predictions , and supply chain stream . this helps in cost
   reduction , improved accuracy , and time saving in a large scale operation
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); data science; digital technologies; food
   industry; machine learning ( ml )
ID cost reduction; decision making; e-learning; food safety; investments;
   quality management; waste management; artificial intelligence; digital
   technologies; digital transformation; food industries; food processing
   industry; food safety; industrial automation; machine learning; machine
   learning; operational efficiencies; supply chains

---

UT 164
AR Bisht B, 2025, FOOD CONTROL, V170, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2024.111030
TI Industry 4.0 digital transformation: Shaping the future of food quality
AU Bisht B; Rawat K; Vohat A; Jangid N; Singh N; Nishinari K; Vlaskin MS;
   Kurbatova A; Kumar V/4
TC 17
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2025
AB the agri food sector represents a boundless source for sustaining a growing
   global population , with food quality emerging as a paramount concern .
   however , the evolving landscape presents several challenges , necessitating
   a compelling need to harness the potential of recent advancements in
   computer aided systems . fortunately , advances in computer aided digital
   transformation have ushered in the era of industry 4.0 , representing a
   dramatic leap forward . within this framework , quality 4.0 has emerged as a
   pivotal component , leveraging intelligent and innovative technologies to
   enhance quality monitoring systems . this review emphasizes within the
   broader context of digital transformation that defines today s food industry
   , facilitating the utilization of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , big data
   analytics , food printing techniques , digital twins , smart sensors , and
   blockchain technology to revolutionize quality management in different food
   sector
DE computer aided; digital; food quality; industry 40; quality 40

---

UT 165
AR Zhang F/1, 2020, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V41, P318, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20200223-253
TI Construction of Big Data Standard System for Food Safety; [食品安全大数据标准体系建设研究]
AU Zhang F/1; Jing Y; Zhu P; Wang D/1; Guo X/1; Tao G
TC 1
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2020
AB by analyzing the characteristics of food safety big data and referring to
   the social co governance system of food safety , an investigation into the
   construction of a big data standard system for food safety was conducted
   based on five kinds of data including government supervision , enterprise
   information , testing , quality monitoring and internet data ( covering all
   steps in the whole industry chain including the farming and processing of
   agricultural products , as well as food production , storage ,
   transportation , sale and consumption ) generated and used by six kinds of
   entities including governments , enterprises , inspection and testing
   institutions , industry associations , media and consumers . based on the
   big data reference model , an innovative food safety big data technology
   reference framework and a three dimensional spatial model for the standard
   system were constructed , and the standards to be developed for the standard
   system were elaborated . in order to further accelerate its implementation
   and application , an evaluation model for the standard system was
   established , and some suggestions concerning the development of food safety
   big data standard system and 20 priority standards to be developed were put
   forward to promote the development of the food safety big data industry .
   2020 , china food publishing company . all right reserved .
DE big data; evaluation model; food safety; reference frame; standards system
ID agricultural products; agricultural robots; big data; digital storage; food
   safety; food storage; safety testing; well testing; data technologies;
   evaluation modeling; governance systems; industry association; quality
   monitoring; reference frameworks; reference modeling; spatial modeling;
   accident prevention

---

UT 166
AR Sun Q/2, 2026, PATTERN RECOGN LETT, V201, P22, DOI
   10.1016/j.patrec.2025.12.011
TI LIFR-Net: A lightweight hybrid neural network with feature grouping for
   efficient food image recognition
AU Sun Q/2; Sheng G; Zhu X/1; Song J; Song Y/2; Yao T; Wang H/1; Wang L/1
TC 1
SO PATTERN RECOGN LETT
PY 2026
AB food image recognition based on deep learning plays a crucial role in the
   field of food computing . however , its high demand for computing resources
   limits its deployment on end devices and fails to effectively achieve
   intelligent diet and nutrition management . to address this issue , we aim
   to balance computational efficiency with recognition accuracy and propose a
   compact food image recognition model named lightweight inter group food
   recognition net ( lifr net ) that combines convolutional neural network (
   cnn ) and vision transformer ( vit ) . in lifr net , a lightweight vit
   module called lightweight inter group transformer ( lit ) is designed , and
   a lightweight component named feature grouping transformer is constructed ,
   which can efficiently extract local and global features of food images and
   optimize the number of parameters and computational complexity . in addition
   , by shuffling and fusing irregularly grouped feature maps , the information
   exchange among channels is enhanced , and the recognition accuracy of the
   model is improved . extensive experiments on three commonly used public food
   image recognition datasets , namely ethz food101 , vireo food172 , and uec
   food256 , show that lifr net achieves recognition accuracies of 90.49 % ,
   91.04 % , and 74.23 % with lower numbers of parameters and computational
   amounts
DE cnn; food computing; food image recognition; lightweight; vision transformer
ID computational efficiency; convolutional neural networks; image enhancement;
   information dissemination; nutrition; convolutional neural network; feature
   grouping; food computing; food image; food image recognition; hybrid neural
   networks; inter-group; lightweight; recognition accuracy; vision
   transformer; image recognition

---

UT 167
AR Cao P, 2024, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V45, P1, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20231231-270
TI Hash Food Image Retrieval Based on Enhanced Vision Transformer;
   [基于增强视觉Transformer的哈希食品图像检索]
AU Cao P; Min W; Song J/1; Sheng G; Yang Y/6; Wang L/1; Jiang S
TC 0
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2024
AB food image retrieval , a major task in food computing , has garnered
   extensive attention in recent years . however , it faces two primary
   challenges . first , food images exhibit fine grained characteristics ,
   implying that visual differences between different food categories may be
   subtle and often can only be observable in local regions of the image .
   second , food images contain abundant semantic information , such as
   ingredients and cooking methods , whose extraction and utilization are
   crucial for enhancing the retrieval performance . to address these issues ,
   this paper proposes an enhanced vit hash network ( evhnet ) based on a pre
   trained vision transformer ( vit ) model . given the fine grained nature of
   food images , a local feature enhancement module enabling the network to
   learn more representative features was designed in evhnet based on
   convolutional structure . to better leverage the semantic information in
   food images , an aggregated semantic feature module aggregating the
   information based on class token features was designed in evhnet . the
   proposed evhnet model was evaluated under three popular hash image retrieval
   frameworks , namely greedy hash ( greedyhash ) , central similarity
   quantization ( csq ) , and deep polarized network ( dpn ) , and compared
   with four mainstream network models , alexnet , resnet50 , vit b_32 , and
   vit b_16 . experimental results on the food 101 , vireo food 172 , and uec
   food 256 food datasets demonstrated that the evhnet model outperformed other
   models in terms of comprehensive retrieval accuracy . 2024 chinese chamber
   of commerce
DE deep hash learning; food computing; food image retrieval; hash retrieval;
   vision transformer network
ID cooking; deep learning; image enhancement; semantics; deep hash learning;
   enhanced vision; fine grained; food computing; food image; food image
   retrieval; hash retrieval; network models; semantics information; vision
   transformer network; image retrieval

---

UT 168
AR Bhavana BK, 2026, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V63, P801, DOI
   10.1007/s13197-026-06568-0
TI Integrating artificial intelligence with non-destructive experimental
   methods for effective food analysis: a case study on spices
AU Bhavana BK; Tanwar N; Puttaswamy T; Mudliar SN; Debnath S
TC 0
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB spices are essential in daily life , serving both culinary and medicinal
   purposes and have profoundly influenced human history , culture , economy ,
   and health . however , a key challenge associated with these natural
   ingredients is the limited information available for their identification
   and quality assessment . the critical issues of spice processing and
   authentication , emphasize the need for a robust digital authentication
   system . hence , there is a need for an innovative approach leveraging
   artificial intelligence and machine learning to enhance spice authentication
   . the integration of food computing and non invasive experimental methods
   has emerged as a significant approach to enhance the analysis and quality
   control of spices . this review explores how advanced computational
   techniques , such as artificial intelligence , can be combined with non
   destructive experimental methods such as near infrared spectroscopy ,
   fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and hyper spectral imaging to
   achieve more comprehensive , efficient , and accurate spice components
   analysis . spices , with complex compositions and high economic ,
   nutritional , functional , and sensory value characteristics , serve as an
   ideal case study using artificial intelligence , machine learning , and deep
   learning for the classification , authentication , and quality assessment of
   spices . it highlights the ability of food computing to process and
   interpret large datasets obtained from spectroscopy , chromatography , and
   sensory evaluation . with recent advances and case studies , this review
   emphasizes the potential of ai integrated non destructive experimental
   approaches to address current challenges in spice quality analysis . this
   ensures the authenticity , safety , and quality of spices supporting
   industry efforts to enhance product quality , reduce waste , and meet
   consumer demands . association of food scientists and technologists ( india
   ) 2026 .
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food computing; food quality;
   machine learning; spices
ID authentication; deep learning; food products; history; infrared devices;
   large datasets; learning systems; near infrared spectroscopy; quality
   control; sensory analysis; spectrum analysis; spice; case-studies; deep
   learning; experimental methods; food analysis; food computing; food quality;
   machine learning; nondestructive; quality assessment; spice

---

UT 169
AR Top JL, 2023, EFF FOOD CHAINS MODEL APPL, P209, DOI
   10.3920/9789086867059_013
TI Food informatics
AU Top JL; Koenderink NJJP; Rijgersberg H
TC 0
SO EFF FOOD CHAINS MODEL APPL
PY 2023
AB purpose : innovation in agrifood supply chains requires transparency of
   information and knowledge . the objective of food informatics is to create
   web based methods and tools to support continuous interaction between
   science , industry and society . methodology / approach : a central theme is
   to apply technologies that express the semantics of research information .
   due to the development of knowledge models ( ontologies ) , computer systems
   become aware of food domain knowledge . the most important step in the
   context is to introduce a formal version of the most elementary natural
   language sentence ( subjectpredicate object ) and to refer to its parts
   using world wide unique identifiers . this has been supplemented with
   logical constructs to allow complex reasoning . findings : we have developed
   the roc method : rapid and reuse based ontology construction . this method
   makes knowledge modeling more efficient . roc allows the domain expert to
   autonomously identify terms and concepts . the expert is supported in
   associative thinking . secondly , we have developed a vocabulary to describe
   the core concepts and processes in quantitative ( agrifood ) research . we
   have implemented and evaluated this vocabulary in new tools to assist
   researchers . practical implications : if more people understand the
   assumptions and mechanisms on which scientific results in agrifood are based
   , they have a better understanding of which actions to take . for food
   industry this means increased quality , sustainability and cost
   effectiveness in the industrial production process . the research management
   system tiffany has been developed and implemented at ti food and nutrition .
   secondly , erds , the emerging risks detection system scans signals on the
   web that point to events that eventually may cause food safety risks . a
   third application is gateway2food . this tool discloses knowledge in the
   field of food technology to small and medium size companies by allowing them
   to interactively search for experts . wageningen academic publishers the
   netherlands , 2010 .
DE e-science; emerging risks; knowledge management; open innovation; semantic
   web

---

UT 170
AR Chatzinikolaou S, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15091566
TI Integrating Veterinary Public Health Data into EPCIS-Based Digital
   Traceability for Dairy Supply Chains
AU Chatzinikolaou S; Vassiliou G; Gianniou M; Vassalos M; Papadakis N
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB dairy foods particularly cheeses produced from raw or minimally processed
   milk remain vulnerable to hazards such as listeria monocytogenes , where
   delayed laboratory confirmation can expand recalls , increase food waste ,
   and delay outbreak containment . this study proposes a veterinary aware
   digital traceability framework that embeds herd health data , milk quality
   testing , and inspection outcomes directly into batch level epcis event
   records . by representing veterinary public health controls as structured ,
   machine actionable traceability elements , the framework enables automatic
   logging of mandatory control points , systematic compliance verification ,
   and rule based risk state transitions within standard epcis infrastructures
   . using regulation consistent dairy simulations modeling delayed listeria
   detection during maturation , we evaluate the operational impact of event
   level causal traceability within the proposed architecture . compared with
   conventional time window recall strategies , provenance based trace forward
   queries reduced recall scope under the evaluated synthetic scenarios .
   integrating structured veterinary controls into epcis based traceability
   systems supports automated regulatory evidence generation and more targeted
   recall decisions , contributing to improved auditability and reduced food
   waste in dairy supply chains
DE agri-food informatics; consumer protection; dairy supply chains; digital
   traceability; epcis; food safety; food waste; outbreak containment; recalls;
   regulatory compliance; supply chain transparency; veterinary public health
ID article; cheese; consumer protection; diagnosis; epidemiology; food safety;
   food waste; health data; herd; listeria; listeria monocytogenes; logging;
   milk; nonhuman; public health; regulatory compliance; simulation; supply
   chain; veterinary medicine

---

UT 171
AR Ebrahimipour SY, 2025, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V146, DOI
   10.1016/j.jfca.2025.107825
TI Zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIFs): Versatile materials for sensing and
   mitigating diverse food contaminants
AU Ebrahimipour SY; Shahsavari M; Sheikhshoaei M; Sheikhshoaie I
TC 7
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2025
AB zeolitic imidazolate frameworks ( zifs ) , renowned for their high surface
   area , tunable porosity , and chemical stability , are transformative in
   advancing food safety through sophisticated contaminant analysis and
   mitigation . this review elucidates zifs versatile applications across
   various domains including pesticides , antibiotics , synthetic dyes ,
   bacterial pathogens , mycotoxins , and other food safety applications .
   employing electrochemical sensing , fluorescence detection , photocatalysis
   , adsorption , magnetic solid phase extraction , and active packaging , zif
   based systems deliver exceptional sensitivity and selectivity in complex
   food matrices . these encompass real time electrochemical sensors for
   contaminant monitoring , adsorptive composites for effluent treatment ,
   photocatalytic platforms for pollutant degradation , antimicrobial packaging
   for shelf life extension , and sensors for emerging chemical contaminants .
   comparative evaluations with zeolites , molecularly imprinted polymers , and
   carbon nanomaterials underscore zifs superior tunability , despite
   challenges in hydrolytic stability and scalability . advances in green
   synthesis and hybrid composites enhance biocompatibility and sustainability
   . comprehensive tables synthesize performance metrics , affirming zifs
   potential to revolutionize food safety analytics . this review advocates for
   integrating zifs into iot enabled devices and multifunctional systems ,
   fostering real time monitoring and sustainable food safety solutions
DE active packaging; antibiotics; chemical sensors; contaminant detection;
   dyes; food safety; mycotoxins; pathogens; pesticides; zeolitic imidazolate
   frameworks ( zifs )

---

UT 172
AR Tsampos I, 2025, COMPUT, V14, DOI 10.3390/computers14100412
TI DietQA: A Comprehensive Framework for Personalized Multi-Diet Recipe
   Retrieval Using Knowledge Graphs, Retrieval-Augmented Generation, and Large
   Language Models
AU Tsampos I; Marakakis E
TC 6
SO COMPUT
PY 2025
AB recipes available on the web often lack nutritional transparency and clear
   indicators of dietary suitability . while searching by title is
   straightforward , exploring recipes that meet combined dietary needs ,
   nutritional goals , and ingredient level preferences remains challenging .
   most existing recipe search systems do not effectively support flexible
   multi dietary reasoning in combination with user preferences and
   restrictions . for example , users may seek gluten free and dairy free
   dinners with suitable substitutions , or compound goals such as vegan and
   low fat desserts . recent systematic reviews report that most food
   recommender systems are content based and often non personalized , with
   limited support for dietary restrictions , ingredient level exclusions , and
   multi criteria nutrition goals . this paper introduces dietqa , an end to
   end , language adaptable chatbot system that integrates a knowledge graph (
   kg ) , retrieval augmented generation ( rag ) , and a large language model (
   llm ) to support personalized , dietary aware recipe search and question
   answering . dietqa crawls greek language recipe websites to extract
   structured information such as titles , ingredients , and quantities .
   nutritional values are calculated using validated food composition databases
   , and dietary tags are inferred automatically based on ingredient
   composition . all information is stored in a neo4j based knowledge graph ,
   enabling flexible querying via cipher . users interact with the system
   through a natural language chatbot friendly interface , where they can
   express preferences for ingredients , nutrients , dishes , and diets , and
   filter recipes based on multiple factors such as ingredient availability ,
   exclusions , and nutritional goals . dietqa supports multi diet recipe
   search by retrieving both compliant recipes and those adaptable via
   ingredient substitutions , explaining how each result aligns with user
   preferences and constraints . an llm extracts intents and entities from user
   queries to support rule based cipher retrieval , while the rag pipeline
   generates contextualized responses using the user query and preferences ,
   retrieved recipes , statistical summaries , and substitution logic . the
   system integrates real time updates of recipe and nutritional data ,
   supporting up to date , relevant , and personalized recommendations . it is
   designed for language adaptable deployment and has been developed and
   evaluated using greek language content . dietqa provides a scalable
   framework for transparent and adaptive dietary recommendation systems
   powered by conversational ai
DE chatbot; dietary reasoning; food computing; ingredient substitution;
   knowledge graph ( kg ); large language models ( llms ); natural language
   interface; personalized nutrition; recipe recommendation; retrieval-
   augmented generation ( rag )
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; computational linguistics; food
   additives; food ingredients; food storage; natural language processing
   systems; nutrition; query processing; recommender systems; transparency;
   websites; chatbots; dietary reasoning; food computing; ingredient
   substitution; knowledge graph; knowledge graphs; language model; large
   language model; natural language interfaces; personalized nutrition; recipe
   recommendation; retrieval-augmented generation; search engines

---

UT 173
AR Tseng YJ, 2023, ACS OMEGA, V8, P15854, DOI 10.1021/acsomega.2c07722
TI When Machine Learning and Deep Learning Come to the Big Data in Food
   Chemistry
AU Tseng YJ; Chuang P-J; Appell M
TC 53
SO ACS OMEGA
PY 2023
AB since the first food database was released over one hundred years ago , food
   databases have become more diversified , including food composition
   databases , food flavor databases , and food chemical compound databases .
   these databases provide detailed information about the nutritional
   compositions , flavor molecules , and chemical properties of various food
   compounds . as artificial intelligence ( ai ) is becoming popular in every
   field , ai methods can also be applied to food industry research and
   molecular chemistry . machine learning and deep learning are valuable tools
   for analyzing big data sources such as food databases . studies
   investigating food compositions , flavors , and chemical compounds with ai
   concepts and learning methods have emerged in the past few years . this
   review illustrates several well known food databases , focusing on their
   primary contents , interfaces , and other essential features . we also
   introduce some of the most common machine learning and deep learning methods
   . furthermore , a few studies related to food databases are given as
   examples , demonstrating their applications in food pairing , food drug
   interactions , and molecular modeling . based on the results of these
   applications , it is expected that the combination of food databases and ai
   will play an essential role in food science and food chemistry . 2023 the
   authors . published by american chemical society .

---

UT 174
AR Buğdalı EM, 2026, EUR FOOD RES TECHNOL, V252, DOI 10.1007/s00217-025-04977-7
TI Deep learning for systemic food safety analytics: forecasting RASFF
   notifications and interpreting risk drivers
AU Buğdalı EM; Güçlü U; Güçlü Üstündağ Ö
TC 0
SO EUR FOOD RES TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB food safety is a critical public health issue requiring a shift from
   reactive crisis management to proactive , predictive governance . this study
   introduces an end to end deep learning framework , built upon a recurrent
   neural network architecture , to forecast monthly dairy related food safety
   notifications from the eu s rapid alert system for food and feed ( rasff ) .
   by integrating a diverse set of economic , environmental , social , and
   technological indicators from five eu countries ( 20012024 ) , the model
   provides explicit , forward looking risk predictions . the framework s core
   innovations include a robust in model strategy for handling missing data ,
   which avoids traditional imputation bias , and an interpretability method
   that reveals the direction and temporal scale of risk drivers . the model
   achieved strong predictive performance , strategically prioritizing public
   health sensitivity with a high recall of 80.34 % , a balanced f1-score of
   71.21 % , and an auc roc of 0.8292. the interpretability analysis revealed
   that systemic risk is driven by a composite of factors with distinct
   temporal signatures : chronic , year round pressures ( e . g . , antibiotic
   usage ) , seasonal risks ( e . g . , temperature ) , and long lagged
   structural influences ( e . g . , agricultural income ) . by unifying
   forecasting with multi level interpretation , this research provides a
   validated blueprint for intelligent early warning systems . it offers
   actionable , temporally specific insights that enable policymakers ,
   industry , and researchers to advance a more agile and data informed
   approach to food safety . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2025 .
DE data imputation; deep learning; food safety; rasff notifications; time
   series classification; xai
ID accident prevention; agricultural economics; classification ( of information
   ); data handling; food safety; forecasting; public health; risk analysis;
   risk assessment; alert systems; data imputation; deep learning; food safety;
   interpretability; public health issues; rapid alert system for food and feed
   notification; risk drivers; time series classifications; xai; deep learning

---

UT 175
AR Krupitzer C, 2022, PROCESS, V10, DOI 10.3390/pr10091781
TI Digital Food Twins Combining Data Science and Food Science: System Model,
   Applications, and Challenges †
AU Krupitzer C; Noack T; Borsum C
TC 53
SO PROCESS
PY 2022
AB the production of food is highly complex due to the various chemo physical
   and biological processes that must be controlled for transforming
   ingredients into final products . further , production processes must be
   adapted to the variability of the ingredients , e . g . , due to seasonal
   fluctuations of raw material quality . digital twins are known from industry
   4.0 as a method to model , simulate , and optimize processes . in this
   vision paper , we describe the concept of a digital food twin . due to the
   variability of the raw materials , such a digital twin has to take into
   account not only the processing steps but also the chemical , physical , or
   microbiological properties that change the food independently from the
   processing . we propose a hybrid modeling approach , which integrates the
   traditional approach of food process modeling and simulation of the bio
   chemical and physical properties with a data driven approach based on the
   application of machine learning . this work presents a conceptual framework
   for our digital twin concept based on explainable artificial intelligence
   and wearable technology . we discuss the potential in four case studies and
   derive open research challenges
DE artificial intelligence; digital twin; food processing; industry 40; machine
   learning; self-aware computing systems

---

UT 176
AR Chan L, 2021, DATABASE, V2021, DOI 10.1093/database/baab003
TI The landscape of nutri-informatics: A review of current resources and
   challenges for integrative nutrition research
AU Chan L; Vasilevsky N; Thessen A; McMurry J; Haendel M
TC 23
SO DATABASE
PY 2021
AB informatics has become an essential component of research in the past few
   decades , capitalizing on the efficiency and power of computation to improve
   the knowledge gained from increasing quantities and types of data . while
   other fields of research such as genomics are well represented in
   informatics resources , nutrition remains underrepresented . nutrition is
   one of the most integral components of human life , and it impacts
   individuals far beyond just nutrient provisions . for example , nutrition
   plays a role in cultural practices , interpersonal relationships and body
   image . despite this , integrated computational investigations have been
   limited due to challenges within nutrition informatics ( nutri informatics )
   and nutrition data . the purpose of this review is to describe the landscape
   of nutri informatics resources available for use in computational nutrition
   research and clinical utilization . in particular , we will focus on the
   application of biomedical ontologies and their potential to improve the
   standardization and interoperability of nutrition terminologies and
   relationships between nutrition and other biomedical disciplines such as
   disease and phenomics . additionally , we will highlight challenges
   currently faced by the nutri informatics community including experimental
   design , data aggregation and the roles scientific journals and primary
   nutrition researchers play in facilitating data reuse and successful
   computational research . finally , we will conclude with a call to action to
   create and follow community standards regarding standardization of language
   , documentation specifications and requirements for data reuse . with the
   continued movement toward community standards of this kind , the entire
   nutrition research community can transition toward greater usage of
   findability , accessibility , interoperability and reusability principles
   and in turn more transparent science . 2021 the author ( s ) 2021 .
   published by oxford university press .
ID genomics; humans; informatics; knowledge; medical informatics; research;
   genomics; human; information science; knowledge; medical informatics;
   research

---

UT 177
AR Vanitha N, 2025, SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER, VPart F102, P131, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-76758-6_9
TI Exploring the Fusion: Applications and Challenges of Integrating Food
   Technology with Big Data and Industry 5.0
AU Vanitha N
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER
PY 2025
AB advent of big data has restructured some industries , with the food sector ,
   by generating massive amounts of data from sources such as internet of
   things ( iot ) , social media and phones . this influx of data , whether
   structured or unstructured , has prompted the development and pursuit of big
   data technologies throughout the food supply chain . an outline of topical
   advances in big data applications within food safety , highlighting its
   nascent stage while acknowledging its significant influence across the
   entire supply chain were explored in this chapter . it offers predictive
   insights , aids in real time decision making , shape monitoring and sampling
   strategies within the food supply chain . furthermore , the integration of
   big data with ai / ml presents opportunities for personalized consumer
   understandings and enriched operating efficacy . despite these advancements
   , challenges persist , necessitating further research efforts . from
   reducing post harvest losses to optimizing supply chain management and
   enhancing food safety , big data holds immense potential for transforming
   the food industry . however , unlocking this potential requires addressing
   technological , health , and sustainability concerns . this paper
   synthesizes insights from various perspectives , including food safety ,
   supply chain management , consumer behavior , and regulatory compliance , to
   underscore the multifaceted influence of big data on the food industry and
   the pressing need for its continued exploration and implementation . in
   addition to these advancements , the emergence of industry 5.0 announces an
   exemplar swing by assimilating human centered approaches with ultra modern
   technologies like big data and ai / ml . this evolutions intention to
   substitute connection among people and machines , emphasizing the importance
   of social creativity and ingenuity in driving innovation and problem solving
   within the food industry and beyond
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food safety; food technology; industry
   50; machine learning

---

UT 178
AR Jiang S, 2020, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P4782, DOI
   10.1145/3394171.3418544
TI Food Computing for Multimedia
AU Jiang S; Min W
TC 6
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2020
AB food computing applies computational approaches for acquiring and analyzing
   heterogeneous food data from disparate sources for perception , recognition
   , retrieval , recommendation , prediction and monitoring of food to address
   food related issues in multimedia and beyond . it has received more
   attention from both academia and industry as one emerging interdiscipline
   for its various applications , such as improving human health and
   understanding the culinary culture . recently , there are more studies on
   food computing in the multimedia , such as food recognition and multimodal
   recipe analysis . this tutorial will provide a basic understanding of food
   computing , and discuss its use in various multimedia tasks , ranging from
   food recognition , retrieval , recommendation , recipe analysis to cooking
   behavior understanding . specifically , we will first introduce food
   computing , including its method , task and applications . then we will
   discuss several typical tasks of food computing in the multimedia including
   food image recognition , food retrieval and recommendation , multimodal
   recipe analysis and cooking action anticipation . finally , we will point
   out future research directions on food computing in the multimedia
DE cooking action anticipation; food computing; food recognition; food
   recommendation; recipe analysis
ID image recognition; action anticipations; behavior understanding;
   computational approach; food computing; future research directions; human
   health; multi-modal; multimedia tasks; cooking

---

UT 179
AR Mohbat F, 2024, INT CONF KNOWL MANAG, P1711, DOI 10.1145/3627673.3679562
TI LLaVA-Chef: A Multi-modal Generative Model for Food Recipes
AU Mohbat F; Zaki MJ
TC 22
SO INT CONF KNOWL MANAG
PY 2024
AB in the rapidly evolving landscape of online recipe sharing within a
   globalized context , there has been a notable surge in research toward
   comprehending and generating food recipes . recent advancements in large
   language models ( llms ) like gpt 2 and llava have paved the way for natural
   language processing ( nlp ) approaches to delve deeper into various facets
   of food related tasks , encompassing ingredient recognition and
   comprehensive recipe generation . despite impressive performance and multi
   modal adaptability of llms , domain specific training remains paramount for
   their effective application . this work evaluates existing llms for recipe
   generation and proposes llava chef , a novel model trained on a curated
   dataset of diverse recipe prompts in a multi stage approach . first , we
   refine the mapping of visual food image embeddings to the language space .
   second , we adapt llava to the food domain by fine tuning it on relevant
   recipe data . third , we utilize diverse prompts to enhance the model s
   recipe comprehension . finally , we improve the linguistic quality of
   generated recipes by penalizing the model with a custom loss function .
   llava chef demonstrates impressive improvements over pretrained llms and
   prior works . a detailed qualitative analysis reveals that llava chef
   generates more detailed recipes with precise ingredient mentions , compared
   to existing approaches
DE food computing; food recipe generation; multi-modal large language models;
   natural language generation
ID food chemistry; natural language processing systems; food computing; food
   recipe generation; generative model; language model; language processing;
   multi-modal; multi-modal large language model; natural language generation;
   natural languages; processing approach; food ingredients

---

UT 180
AR Calvin R, 2021, PROC - IEEE CONF BUS INFORMATICS CBI - PAP, V1, P201, DOI
   10.1109/CBI52690.2021.00031
TI Conceptualizing Data Ecosystems for Industrial Food Production
AU Calvin R; Hannah S; Qiang C; Jana F; Wolfgang M
TC 8
SO PROC - IEEE CONF BUS INFORMATICS CBI - PAP
PY 2021
AB industrial food production represents one of the largest industries ,
   accounting for a share of ten percent of the world s gross domestic product
   . simultaneously , it is responsible for 26 percent of global greenhouse gas
   emissions . due to increasing co2 taxes and population s call for
   sustainability and co2 reduction , it is facing challenges in terms of
   economic profitability and stakeholder demands . these challenges could
   partly be overcome by participating in data ecosystems in which data are
   refined as data products , understood , exchanged and monetized as economic
   goods . despite large amounts of data , collected parenthetically along the
   value chain in food production , potentials of data analytics and data
   ecosystems are only marginally exploited . food production mainly focuses on
   traditional , product centric business models . this work shows the
   conceptualization of a data ecosystem for food production , enabling data
   based business models . therefore , resources , actors , roles and
   underlying relationships of future ecosystem are analyzed . building on
   these , corresponding architectural and analytical artifacts that support
   data ecosystem exploitation are presented . a food production data ecosystem
   is exemplified by applying data analytics to compressor data , which reveals
   high potentials for co2 reduction
DE data ecosystem; digital business models; ecosystem design; industrial food
   production; value stream mapping
ID carbon dioxide; ecosystems; gas emissions; greenhouse gasses; business
   models; co2 reduction; data analytics; data ecosystem; digital business;
   digital business model; ecosystem design; food production; industrial food
   production; value stream mapping; data analytics

---

UT 181
AR Li T/1, 2024, APPL SOFT COMPUT, V150, DOI 10.1016/j.asoc.2023.111103
TI Gaussian distribution resampling via Chebyshev distance for food computing
AU Li T/1; Zuo E; Chen C/2; Chen C; Zhong J; Yan J; Lv X
TC 10
SO APPL SOFT COMPUT
PY 2024
AB the problem of data imbalance often occurs in the real world food domain .
   traditional classification algorithms are prone to overfitting on imbalanced
   datasets , and the decision surface will be biased toward majority class
   samples , making it difficult to identify minority class samples . although
   previous resampling techniques can deal with the imbalance problem by
   balancing the dataset , they may produce class overlap because the anchor
   samples are not appropriately selected and the generated dataset does not
   conform to the original distribution . this paper proposes an adaptive
   resampling technique based on gaussian distribution oversampling combined
   with random undersampling ( gdrs ) to address the abovementioned problems .
   the technique is based on the chebyshev distance combining the weight
   information of the minority class samples to select a suitable anchor sample
   . a new dataset conforming to the original distribution is generated in the
   form of a gaussian distribution around the anchor sample . then the random
   undersampling technique is combined to reduce the possibility of overfitting
   . the technique is applied to five uci datasets and compared with seven
   imbalanced learning methods . the experimental results demonstrate that our
   method gdrs yields optimal performance . we also validate the effectiveness
   of our method in dealing with real dairy datasets with different imbalance
   ratios , which is promising for application in the food field
DE chebyshev distance; food computing; gaussian distribution over-sampling;
   imbalanced learning; random undersampling
ID classification ( of information ); learning systems; chebyshev; chebyshev
   distance; food computing; gaussian distribution over-sampling; imbalanced
   learning; over-sampling; overfitting; random under samplings; resampling;
   resampling technique; gaussian distribution

---

UT 182
AR Haider A, 2023, INT SYMP NETWORKS COMPUT COMMUN ISNCC, DOI
   10.1109/ISNCC58260.2023.10323795
TI A Hybrid Approach for Food Name Recognition in Restaurant Reviews
AU Haider A; Saeed S; Bilal K; Erbad A
TC 1
SO INT SYMP NETWORKS COMPUT COMMUN ISNCC
PY 2023
AB food computing is an emerging research field that leverages natural language
   processing ( nlp ) techniques to extract valuable insights from textual data
   . a key task within nlp is named entity recognition ( ner ) , which involves
   identifying and categorizing words or phrases into predefined categories .
   current , ner methods are limited in their capacity to recognize novel
   entity types , such as food names . enhancing their capabilities to
   encompass new entities necessitates supervised training , that needs
   substantial labeled dataset . labeling such datasets is time intensive and
   challenging , particularly for novel entities like foods , that lack
   standardized definitions across various applications . furthermore ,
   existing state of the art transformer based techniques are not suitable for
   lightweight applications due to their large size and computational
   complexity . in this study , we present a neuro heuristic based approach for
   food name recognition , specifically targeting food names or recipe names .
   to mitigate the need for extensive labeling , we adopt a template based
   approach to prepare a dataset with labeled food entities . our system
   achieves an impressive f1 accuracy of 0.97 , on the dataset prepared by
   using multiple publicly available resources , including the branded food
   dataset and npr dataset
ID food computing; hybrid approach; labelings; language processing techniques;
   name recognition; named entity recognition; natural languages; research
   fields; restaurant reviews; textual data; natural language processing
   systems

---

UT 183
AR Zhang D/4, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V164, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105272
TI Domain knowledge, just evaluation, and robust data standards are required to
   advance AI in food science
AU Zhang D/4; Liu M/3; Yu Z/3; Xu H/1; Pfister S; Menichetti G; Kou X; Zhu J;
   Fan D; Rao P
TC 9
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : artificial intelligence ( ai ) has shown transformative
   potential across many scientific fields , including food science .
   applications span nutrition , safety , flavor , and sustainability . however
   , current ai implementations in food science often lack integration with
   domain expertise , face reproducibility challenges , and are hindered by
   fragmented datasets and limited benchmarking . scope and approach : this
   perspective outlines key challenges and proposes five strategic initiatives
   to guide the effective and responsible integration of ai in food science .
   these include embedding domain knowledge into models , establishing
   transparent and reproducible workflows , adopting benchmarking practices ,
   promoting practical validation , and developing robust data standards and
   infrastructure . key findings and conclusions : to fully unlock ai s
   potential in food science , future research must prioritize domain aware
   model development , open science practices , and practical validation .
   these efforts are critical to enabling reliable , generalizable , and
   impactful ai tools that address real world challenges in the food systems
DE artificial intelligence; databases; food chemistry; food informatics; food
   systems; machine learning

---

UT 184
AR Le DTA, 2025, J LOGIST INF SERV SCI, V12, P124, DOI 10.33168/JLISS.2025.0708
TI Big Data Analytics in Food Supply Chain Management: A Systematic Literature
   Review
AU Le DTA; Dam SM
TC 1
SO J LOGIST INF SERV SCI
PY 2025
AB this systematic literature review examines big data analytics ( bda )
   applications in food supply chain management to address global challenges of
   food waste and environmental degradation . following prisma 2020 guidelines
   , researchers analyzed 64 peer reviewed studies published between 2014-2024.
   findings reveal accelerating research momentum , with publications
   increasing 5.4-fold from 2021-2023 compared to 2017-2020 , reflecting post
   pandemic digital technology adoption . four primary application domains
   emerged : general applications ( 28 % ) , cold chain monitoring ( 23 % ) ,
   risk management ( 17 % ) , and traceability systems ( 11 % ) . technologies
   predominantly include machine learning , deep learning , time series
   modeling , and iot sensor networks . theoretical analysis through dynamic
   capabilities theory shows bda enhances supply chain agility and performance
   , though implementation faces challenges including data integration
   complexity , skills gaps , and regulatory requirements . the unique
   constraints of food systems , such as perishability , create additional
   complications . the review identifies research gaps in outcome focused
   evaluation , real world implementation validation , and sustainability
   impact measurement . a proposed research agenda prioritizes : developing
   outcome oriented evaluation frameworks , establishing standardized
   benchmarks , and advancing decision aware analytics . for practitioners , an
   implementation framework addresses technology selection , stakeholder
   coordination , and performance measurement tailored to food supply chains .
   2025 , success culture press
DE big data analytics; cold chain management; dynamic capabilities theory; food
   supply chain management; food traceability; machine learning; supply chain
   performance; systematic literature review

---

UT 185
AR Singh B/1, 2025, COMPUT VIS TECH AGRIC ADV, P31, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-8019-2.ch002
TI Unleashing Artificial Intelligence, IoT, Big Data in Food and Agricultural
   Industry: Strategic and Multi-Dimensional Analysis
AU Singh B/1; Raghav A
TC 0
SO COMPUT VIS TECH AGRIC ADV
PY 2025
AB incorporating artificial intelligence ( ai ) , the internet of things ( iot
   ) , and big data is reimagining the food and agriculture sector and provides
   a three dimensional effect on productivity , sustainability , and resource
   management . however , the bottom line impact is that the interconnectedness
   of ai driven analytic predictions combined with innovative farming
   technologies enabled by iot can only bring forth better decision making and
   reduce wastage , creating an answer for food security needs . furthermore ,
   big data analytics allows real time market and consumer behavior tracking ,
   providing businesses with a more transparent market picture . the chapter
   comprehensively understands these technologies , highlighting their
   applications in climate resilience , precision agriculture , and sustainable
   practices . it also analyzes the ethical and regulatory dilemmas these
   transformations pose . it offers a conceptual approach for balancing risks
   while implementing them to strengthen long term agricultural sustainability
   and global food security . 2025 igi global scientific publishing
ID agricultural engineering; agricultural products; agricultural robots;
   agronomy; crops; cultivation; decision making; farms; food industry;
   forestry; irrigation; resource allocation; agricultural industries;
   agriculture sectors; decisions makings; food industries; food sector; multi-
   dimensional analysis; productivity management; resource management;
   sustainability managements; three dimensional effect; precision agriculture

---

UT 186
AR Liao S-H, 2025, INTELL DATA ANAL, V29, P631, DOI 10.3233/IDA-240664
TI Two stages data mining analytics for food intentional and behavioral
   recommendations
AU Liao S-H; Widowati R; Liao S-T
TC 2
SO INTELL DATA ANAL
PY 2025
AB a recommender system is an information filtering system used to predict a
   user s rating or preference for an item . dietary preferences are often
   influenced by various etiquettes and culture , such as appetite , the
   selection of ingredients , menu development , cooking methods , choice of
   tableware , seating arrangement of diners , order of eating , etc . food
   delivery service is a courier service in that delivers food to customers by
   restaurants , stores , or independent delivery companies . with the
   continuous advances in information systems and data science , recommender
   systems are gradually developing toward to intentional and behavioral
   recommendations . behavioral recommendation is an extension of peer to peer
   recommendation , where merchants find the people who want to buy the product
   and deliver it . intentional recommendation is a mindset that seeks to
   understand the life of consumers . by continuously collecting information
   about their actions on the internet and displaying events and information
   that match the life and purchase preferences of consumers . this study
   considers that data targeting is a method by which food delivery service
   platforms can understand consumers dietary preferences and individual
   lifestyles so that the food delivery service platform can effectively
   recommend food to the consumer . thus , this study implements two stages
   data mining analytics , including clustering analysis and association rules
   , to investigate taiwanese food consumers ( n = 2,138 ) to investigate
   dietary and food delivery services behaviors and preferences to find
   knowledge profiles / patterns / rules for food intentional and behavioral
   recommendations . finally , discussion and implications are presented . 2024
   ios press
DE association rules; clustering analysis; dietary preference; food delivery
   services; food intentional and behavioral recommendation
ID advanced analytics; data mining; information filtering; information use;
   recommender systems; clustering analysis; cooking methods; courier service;
   delivery service; dietary preference; food delivery; food delivery service;
   food intentional and behavioral recommendation; information filtering
   system; service platforms; association rules

---

UT 187
AR Jin C, 2020, CURR OPIN FOOD SCI, V36, P24, DOI 10.1016/j.cofs.2020.11.006
TI Big Data in food safety- A review
AU Jin C; Bouzembrak Y; Zhou J/3; Liang Q; van den Bulk LM; Gavai A; Liu N/2;
   van den Heuvel LJ; Hoenderdaal W; Marvin HJP
TC 139
SO CURR OPIN FOOD SCI
PY 2020
AB the massive rise of big data generated from smartphones , social media ,
   internet of things ( iot ) , and multimedia , has produced an overwhelming
   flow of data in either structured or unstructured format . big data
   technologies are being developed and implemented in the food supply chain
   that gather and analyze these data . such technologies demand new approaches
   in data collection , storage , processing and knowledge extraction . in this
   article , an overview of the recent developments in big data applications in
   food safety are presented . this review shows that the use of big data in
   food safety remains in its infancy but it is influencing the entire food
   supply chain . big data analysis is used to provide predictive insights in
   several steps in the food supply chain , support supply chain actors in
   taking real time decisions , and design the monitoring and sampling
   strategies . lastly , the main research challenges that require research
   efforts are introduced

---

UT 188
AR Miralam MS, 2025, J APPL DATA SCI, V6, P1252, DOI 10.47738/jads.v6i2.680
TI Towards Developing an AI Random Forest Model Approach Adopted for
   Sustainable Food Supply Chain under Big Data
AU Miralam MS
TC 3
SO J APPL DATA SCI
PY 2025
AB big data presents a transformative solution for addressing operational
   challenges and emerging risks in the food industry while unlocking new
   opportunities . it enables the analysis and integration of complex , large
   scale datasets that often suffer from poor quality and unstructured formats
   . although big data is a well established technique in supply chain
   management , several areas remain unexplored , particularly in the global
   food supply chain , which faces significant limitations such as
   environmental impact , resource wastage , and operational inefficiencies .
   achieving sustainability requires enhancing food supply chain operations
   through data driven methods . the integration of big data with artificial
   intelligence models , such as random forest , offers a more efficient and
   sustainable approach to optimizing resource utilization , minimizing waste ,
   and improving overall efficiency . this study develops and implements an
   artificial intelligence based random forest model , demonstrating its
   effectiveness in improving sustainability in the food supply chain . the
   model achieves an accuracy of 96 % , outperforming traditional linear
   regression , which records 91 % accuracy . additionally , the f1-score for
   random forest is 0.89 , compared to 0.84 for linear regression ,
   highlighting its superior balance between precision and recall . the model
   also improves waste reduction by 17 % and optimizes resource utilization by
   22 % , contributing to more efficient food supply chain operations . these
   findings underscore the potential of integrating big data analytics and ai
   driven approaches to enhance sustainability and decision making in global
   food supply chains
DE artificial intelligence; big data; decision making frameworks; food supply
   chain; random forest model; sustainability

---

UT 189
AR Shukla AK, 2025, AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG, P1, DOI 10.1039/9781837679119
TI AI Applications in Food Processing and Packaging
AU Shukla AK
TC 3
SO AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is a branch of computer science which uses
   data to create models . these models learn from data and are used to make
   predictions . ai tools are being developed to deal with the complexity and
   variety of data in the food industry . this edited volume highlights the
   ways in which ai can be applied to optimization and automation in quality
   control , processing and packaging of food products . it covers a wide range
   of food products including oils and fats , milk , fish and fishery products
   . filling the gap between literature covering conventional food processing
   and packaging and current research on ai linked to these areas , initial
   chapters highlight ai applications including the internet of things ( iot )
   and big data applications in the food industry . then coverage details the
   intelligent integration of many technologies for different applications in
   the food industry for example non destructive food quality assessment using
   digital images assisted by chemometrics , simulations to detect the
   existence of foreign objects in milk packaging using ultrasonic tomography
   and ai assisted 3d food printing . new advanced sensing technologies ,
   including electronic noses and tongues , are discussed in detail emphasizing
   their role in ensuring food product quality and safety . the royal society
   of chemistry 2025
ID artificial intelligence; big data; fisheries; food chemistry; food industry;
   food processing; food safety; packaging; processed foods; quality control;
   ultrasonic applications; artificial intelligence tools; control processing;
   fat milk; fishery product; food industries; learn+; milk products; oil and
   fats; optimizations; packaging of foods; electronic nose

---

UT 190
AR Yang M, 2021, BHI - IEEE EMBS INT CONF BIOMED HEAL INFORMATICS PROC, DOI
   10.1109/BHI50953.2021.9508528
TI A metric learning approach for personalized meal macronutrient estimation
   from postprandial glucose response signals
AU Yang M; Paromita P; Chaspari T; Das A/1; Sajjadi S; Mortazavi BJ; Gutierrez-
   Osuna R
TC 1
SO BHI - IEEE EMBS INT CONF BIOMED HEAL INFORMATICS PROC
PY 2021
AB managing diabetes requires following a healthy lifestyle , including
   monitoring dietary intake . prior work has shown that meals with different
   macronutrient composition can have distinct postprandial glucose responses (
   ppgr ) , therefore suggesting that ppgrs may be used to monitor diet
   automatically . yet , ppgrs shown large variability across individuals .
   this paper proposes a metric learning approach to achieve personalized meal
   macronutrient estimation from ppgrs . the metric learning approach utilizes
   a siamese neural network ( snn ) architecture , which learns a ppgr
   embedding via a contrastive loss function adapted to the task of interest .
   specifically , the proposed contrastive loss is designed so that it
   maximizes the distance between meals of similar macronutrient composition
   and minimizes the distance between meals with different macronutrients .
   this loss is further computed within each individual , therefore reducing
   individual differences in ppgrs . our results show that the proposed metric
   learning approach outperforms a feedforward neural network when estimating
   the amount of protein , carbohydrate , and fat in a meal . these suggest the
   feasibility of using ppgrs to track meal macronutrient composition ,
   supporting dietary informatics applications for precision health and
   nutrition . 2021 ieee
DE diabetes mellitus; metric learning; personalized diet tracking; postprandial
   glucose response; siamese network
ID feedforward neural networks; glucose; diabetes mellitus; dietary intakes;
   glucose response; healthy lifestyles; learning approach; metric learning;
   personalized diet tracking; postprandial glucose response; response signal;
   siamese network; nutrition

---

UT 191
AR Ramos E, 2025, TRANSP J, V64, DOI 10.1002/tjo3.70007
TI Use of Supply Chain Analytics Technologies in Peru's Agri-Food Supply Chain:
   Supporting Agility and Supply Chain Cost Reduction
AU Ramos E; Ali Z; Hazen B; Boone C; Miranda G; Tamayo A
TC 1
SO TRANSP J
PY 2025
AB this research examines how the use of supply chain analytics technologies (
   uscat ) can increase financial performance by enabling agility and quality
   management capabilities in the peruvian coffee supply chain . using an
   empirical research approach , we theorize and test a model based on the
   dynamic capabilities view . we collected survey data from supply chain
   management experts working in the peruvian coffee supply chain and used
   covariance based structural equation modeling to test a series of hypotheses
   . this research supports the relationship between uscat and improvements in
   supply chain agility , quality focus , and supply chain cost performance for
   agri food supply chains ( afsc ) . these findings offer valuable insights
   for agri food businesses , especially in developing economies , suggesting
   that strategic technological investment can enhance competitiveness and
   financial sustainability . stakeholders ( scholars and managers alike )
   operating in developing areas can use the results to motivate and leverage
   the value of readying themselves and their supply chain partners to
   participate in current and future supply chain technology enabled business
   opportunities . this research contributes to the literature by providing a
   unique perspective on the impact of new supply chain technologies in
   emerging markets , specifically within the peruvian agri food sector , and
   extends the discourse on technology adoption in global agri food supply
   chains . 2025 association for supply chain management , inc .
DE agri-food supply chain; agriculture 50; quality focus; supply chain agility;
   supply chain analytics technologies
ID peru; agricultural production; cost analysis; food supply; supply chain
   management; survey method; technology adoption

---

UT 192
AR Zou Z, 2024, FOODS, V13, DOI 10.3390/foods13111628
TI Disambiguity and Alignment: An Effective Multi-Modal Alignment Method for
   Cross-Modal Recipe Retrieval
AU Zou Z; Zhu X; Zhu Q; Zhang H/7; Zhu L/2
TC 3
SO FOODS
PY 2024
AB as a prominent topic in food computing , cross modal recipe retrieval has
   garnered substantial attention . however , the semantic alignment across
   food images and recipes can not be further enhanced due to the lack of intra
   modal alignment in existing solutions . additionally , a critical issue
   named food image ambiguity is overlooked , which disrupts the convergence of
   models . to these ends , we propose a novel multi modal alignment method for
   cross modal recipe retrieval ( mmacmr ) . to consider inter modal and intra
   modal alignment together , this method measures the ambiguous food image
   similarity under the guidance of their corresponding recipes . additionally
   , we enhance recipe semantic representation learning by involving a cross
   attention module between ingredients and instructions , which is effective
   in supporting food image similarity measurement . we conduct experiments on
   the challenging public dataset recipe1m . as a result , our method
   outperforms several state of the art methods in commonly used evaluation
   criteria
DE cross-modal recipe retrieval; deep learning; food image ambiguity; multi-
   modal alignment

---

UT 193
AR Tiwari R, 2023, IMAGE BASED COMPUT FOOD HEAL ANAL REQUIR CHALLENGES
   SOLUTIONS PRACT IBCFHA, P1, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-22959-6
TI Image Based Computing for Food and Health Analytics: Requirements,
   Challenges, Solutions and Practices: IBCFHA
AU Tiwari R; Koundal D; Upadhyay S
TC 3
SO IMAGE BASED COMPUT FOOD HEAL ANAL REQUIR CHALLENGES SOLUTIONS PRACT IBCFHA
PY 2023
AB increase in consumer awareness of nutritional habits has placed automatic
   food analysis in the spotlight in recent years . however , food logging is
   cumbersome and requires sufficient knowledge of the food item consumed .
   additionally , keeping track of every meal can become a tedious task .
   accurately documenting dietary caloric intake is crucial to manage weight
   loss , but also presents challenges because most of the current methods for
   dietary assessment must rely on memory to recall foods eaten . food
   understanding from digital media has become a challenge with important
   applications in many different domains . substantial research has
   demonstrated that digital imaging accurately estimates dietary intake in
   many environments and it has many advantages over other methods . however ,
   how to derive the food information effectively and efficiently remains a
   challenging and open research problem . the provided recommendations could
   be based on calorie counting , healthy food and specific nutritional
   composition . in addition , if we also consider a system able to log the
   food consumed by every individual along time , it could provide health
   related recommendations in the long term . computer vision specialists have
   developed new methods for automatic food intake monitoring and food logging
   . fourth industrial revolution [ 4.0 ir ] technologies such as deep learning
   and computer vision robotics are key for sustainable food understanding .
   the need for ai based technologies that allow tracking of physical
   activities and nutrition habits are rapidly increasing and automatic
   analysis of food images plays an important role . computer vision and image
   processing offers truly impressive advances to various applications like
   food analytics and healthcare analytics and can aid patients in keeping
   track of their calorie count easily by automating the calorie counting
   process . it can inform the user about the number of calories , proteins ,
   carbohydrates , and other nutrients provided by each meal . the information
   is provided in real time and thus proves to be an efficient method of
   nutrition tracking and can be shared with the dietician over the internet ,
   reducing healthcare costs . this is possible by a system made up of , iot
   sensors , cloud fog based servers and mobile applications . these systems
   can generate data or images which can be analyzed using machine learning
   algorithms . image based computing for food and health analytics covers the
   current status of food image analysis and presents computer vision and image
   processing based solutions to enhance and improve the accuracy of current
   measurements of dietary intake . many solutions are presented to improve the
   accuracy of assessment by analyzing health images , data and food industry
   based images captured by mobile devices . key technique innovations based on
   artificial intelligence and deep learning based food image recognition
   algorithms are also discussed . this book examines the usage of 4.0
   industrial revolution technologies such as computer vision and artificial
   intelligence in the field of healthcare and food industry , providing a
   comprehensive understanding of computer vision and intelligence
   methodologies which tackles the main challenges of food and health
   processing . additionally , the text focuses on the employing sustainable 4
   ir technologies through which consumers can attain the necessary diet and
   nutrients and can actively monitor their health . in focusing specifically
   on the food industry and healthcare analytics , it serves as a single source
   for multidisciplinary information involving ai and vision techniques in the
   food and health sector . current advances such as industry 4.0 and fog cloud
   based solutions are covered in full , offering readers a fully rounded view
   of these rapidly advancing health and food analysis systems
DE ai and ml; food computing; image processing; industry 40 frameworks;
   nutritional analysis

---

UT 194
AR Sadasivam VR, 2024, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL MACH LEARN APPL HEAL INTERNET
   THINGS AIMLA, DOI 10.1109/AIMLA59606.2024.10531342
TI Food Sales Analysis and Prediction Using Machine Learning
AU Sadasivam VR; Narendharakumar G; Ragavan M; Prabhuram A
TC 4
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL MACH LEARN APPL HEAL INTERNET THINGS AIMLA
PY 2024
AB this study uses support vector machines ( svm ) with positive and negative
   binomial distributions to give a thorough analysis and prediction model for
   food sales . the project s goal is to improve sales forecasting s resilience
   and accuracy in the dynamic and intricate food business . when analyzing
   historical sales data , the svm algorithm is used to identify complex
   patterns and correlations that take into account variables like seasonality
   , promotional activities , and outside influences . furthermore , the model
   s integration of the positive and negative binomial distributions allows it
   to take into consideration excess zeros and overdispersion , which are
   frequently seen in datasets related to food sales . food sales data are used
   to assess the suggested methodology , showing how well it captures the
   underlying distributional characteristics and yields precise forecasts . the
   results further the field of predictive analytics in the food industry by
   providing a dependable instrument for companies to plan marketing campaigns
   , optimize inventory management , and improve overall operational efficiency
DE food; forecasting; machine learning; sales prediction need introduction
ID commerce; inventory control; learning systems; predictive analytics; support
   vector machines; analysis models; machine learning; negative binomial
   distribution; prediction modeling; project goals; sale prediction need
   introduction; sale predictions; sales analysis; sales forecasting; support
   vectors machine; sales

---

UT 195
AR Kale SD, 2021, INT CONF SMART GENER COMPUT COMMUN NETW SMART GENCON, DOI
   10.1109/SMARTGENCON51891.2021.9645828
TI Effect of Vehicle Characteristics on Quality of Perishable Foods in Cold
   Chain
AU Kale SD; Patil SC; Patil SG
TC 2
SO INT CONF SMART GENER COMPUT COMMUN NETW SMART GENCON
PY 2021
AB india is one of the world s leading producers of perishable goods . as a
   result , maintaining the quality of these products until the final stage of
   the cold chain is essential . generally , cold reefers are preferred for the
   transportation of various perishable products . temperature and humidity
   fluctuations in cold reefers are responsible for the deterioration of
   perishable food quality . it is vital to maintain food quality during the
   cold chain transportation stage , where vehicle features also play a role in
   reducing food loss . the current study proposes a model to link vehicle
   attributes to relative humidity , and analytics to improve food quality at
   every stage of the cold chain using machine learning algorithms
DE cold chain; cold reefers; machine learning; perishable food
ID learning algorithms; machine learning; vehicles; cold chain; cold reefer;
   food loss; food quality; machine learning; perishable food; perishable
   goods; perishable product; temperature and humidities; vehicle
   characteristics; deterioration

---

UT 196
AR Wanigasingha NH, 2026, FUTUR TECHNOL, V5, P93, DOI
   10.55670/fpll.futech.5.1.10
TI GI meets AI: Glycemic index in the age of AI, computational breakthroughs
AU Wanigasingha NH; Harshani WGL; Ariyaratne MKA; Fernando TGI; Dikwatta U;
   Samarasinghe US
TC 0
SO FUTUR TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB this review explores the avenues for the application of artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) techniques in glycemic index ( gi ) related research .
   the necessity of sophisticated technologies to investigate various girelated
   studies in food analytics has been established in recent years . ai
   technologies have emerged as promising approaches to address these
   challenges . we identified six major ai technologies applied in gi research
   : machine learning , reinforcement learning , deep learning , image
   processing , natural language processing , and explainable ai . some of our
   findings include : ( a ) there have been significant improvements in gi
   related studies using ai technologies over the past decade . ( b ) machine
   learning algorithms were widely used ( c ) many researchers used custom
   datasets , with the predominance of research originating from north american
   countries . ( d ) identification of limitations and future directions for
   girelated studies employing ai technologies . by embracing ai technologies ,
   the field of food analytics is poised for substantial advancements in
   understanding and managing glycemic responses . unlike existing reviews that
   mainly discuss nutritional or clinical aspects of the glycemic index , this
   study systematically examines the integration of ai and machine learning
   technologies in gi related research . it highlights computational
   breakthroughs , methodological trends , and future directions for
   intelligent glycemic analysis . 2026 , future publishing llc
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food analytics; glycemic index;
   machine learning

---

UT 197
AR Achyar DH, 2026, STUD SYST DECIS CONTROL, V238, P831, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-85398-2_73
TI Pythonic Accounting with Predictive Analytics in Palestine Humanitarian
   Crisis: Is the World Heading to a New Security Crisis?
AU Achyar DH
TC 0
SO STUD SYST DECIS CONTROL
PY 2026
AB this study points out the underexplored skyrocketing movement of a war led
   humanitarian crisis in palestine , oil prices , and food prices worldwide
   based on the augmented phillips curve framework enabling this study to
   specifically draw for the first time the predictive analytics on
   humanitarian crisis ( hcrisis ) happening in palestinian territories , oil
   price ( oil ) , and global food price ( food ) . it is theoretically
   necessary to address how the humanitarian crisis in palestine potentially
   draws 4 billion muslims , christians , and jews combined to the center of
   the conflict provoking oil exporting countries to utilize oil as a political
   show of force causing a stronger effect of oil price on food prices . using
   predictive analytics techniques with linear and exponential smoothing
   forecasting , the author collected data from 2015 to 2022 . the findings
   revealed that oil and food are predicted to keep skyrocketing for the next
   five years as long as the hcrisis in palestine keeps occurring . as the
   originality of this study , the author utilizes the recently created global
   index for risk management ( inform ) by the european union ( 2015 ) as the
   proxy for hcrisis in palestine . inform severity index provides a
   comprehensive humanitarian crises assessment of countries encompassing three
   dimensions namely hazard and exposure , vulnerability , and lack of coping
   capacity that have the potential to exceed the capability of state response
   efforts
DE food prices; humanitarian crises; oil prices

---

UT 198
AR Amora JAL, 2024, COMNETSAT - IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL, P369, DOI
   10.1109/COMNETSAT63286.2024.10862141
TI Food Recognition And Recipe Recommendation For Cebuano Cuisine Using An
   Ensemble Of Modified CNN And Web Scraping
AU Amora JAL; Manalili APC; Ceniza-Canillo AM
TC 1
SO COMNETSAT - IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL
PY 2024
AB knowledge surrounding cebuano cuisine , an intangible cultural heritage ,
   continues to diminish due to the effects of globalization and the reliance
   on imports . existing food computing solutions that preserve culinary
   heritage primarily focus on major cuisines such as japanese , chinese , and
   american . thus , there is a gap for lesser known cuisines like cebuano
   cuisine , which has no existing food image datasets and deep learning models
   . to address these challenges and simultaneously promote tourism , there is
   a need to develop a food recognition and recipe recommendation system that
   shares and preserves local culinary knowledge of cebuano cuisine culture .
   to achieve this , the researchers proposed an ensemble of pre trained
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) models specifically vgg16 , densenet201
   , and inceptionv3-enhanced by a self attention mechanism ( sam ) to identify
   cebuano cuisine . due to the lack of a dataset for cebuano cuisine , the
   researchers created one based on the book hikay : the culinary heritage of
   cebu and a web article on famous cebu delicacies , which is gathered via web
   scraping and data augmentation techniques such as rotation , flipping ,
   shifting , saturation , and exposure adjustment . the dataset comprised
   32,400 images across 27 classes . the ensemble learning attained an accuracy
   of 96.96 % , suggesting a high rate of correct cebuano cuisine predictions .
   the finding suggests that the developed system is effective in recognizing
   and promoting cebuano culinary heritage . by leveraging advanced cnn models
   and enhancing them with a self attention mechanism , the study demonstrates
   the potential of ai in preserving cultural knowledge
DE cebuano cuisine; convolutional neural network; deep learning; ensemble
   learning; food recognition; machine learning; self-attention mechanism
ID adversarial machine learning; federated learning; attention mechanisms;
   cebuano cuisine; convolutional neural network; deep learning; ensemble
   learning; food recognition; machine learning; neural network model; self-
   attention mechanism; web scrapings; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 199
AR Kumar PSG, 2026, INT CONF MOB COMPUT SUSTAIN INFORMATICS ICMCSI, P1540, DOI
   10.1109/ICMCSI67283.2026.11412930
TI Deep Learning-Driven Big Data Analytics in the Agri-Food Sector: A
   Systematic Review
AU Kumar PSG; Anbalagan P; Abinaya R
TC 0
SO INT CONF MOB COMPUT SUSTAIN INFORMATICS ICMCSI
PY 2026
AB the agri food sector is a key promoter of global food security and economic
   stability . post harvest loss , wasteful resources , climatic uncertainty ,
   and sustainability requirements are risks that require intelligent , data
   driven solutions . evolving opportunities in big data analytics ( bda ) and
   deep learning ( dl ) have been found to have massive potential to revamp
   agricultural models , food processing , and preservation networks . this
   systematic review covers 20 studies between 2022 and 2025 based on deep
   learning approaches through big data predictive analytics , crop monitoring
   , yield estimation , quality inspection , and smart preservation methods .
   the review lists the application of convolutional , recurrent , and
   attention based neural networks on different agricultural datasets for
   better decision making , process automation , and optimization of efficiency
   . the review also covers the issues of data management such as heterogeneity
   , scalability , interpretability , and integration throughout the agri food
   value chain . summarizing the latest success , the review presents its
   position on how big data systems powered by dl can transform the agri food
   industry for dedication to resilience , accuracy , and sustainability in the
   global food system
DE agri-food sector; big data analytics ( bda ); deep learning ( dl ); food
   processing; precision agriculture; preservation systems
ID agri-food; big data; decision making; food industry; food processing; food
   security; food supply; information management; precision agriculture;
   processed foods; agri-food sector; big data analytic; data analytics; deep
   learning; food sector; global food security; precision agriculture;
   preservation system; security stabilities; systematic review; predictive
   analytics

---

UT 200
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1176 LNNS, P82, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-73997-2_8
TI User-Friendly Health-Conscious Recipe Adaptation System Using Fuzzy
   Linguistic Variables
AU Morales-Garzón A; Morcillo-Jiménez R; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista
   MJ
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB while food significantly impacts our daily lives , the health implications
   of dietary choices are equally crucial . recipe adaptation systems emerge
   here as a helpful practice for automatically modifying food to recipes .
   they offer users diverse options to substitute ingredients while fulfilling
   specific needs . however , users may lack expertise in nutrition , making
   health conscious decisions more challenging . in this study , we propose to
   use fuzzy linguistic variables to offer easily understandable nutritional
   information for final users . we show the process of incorporating fuzzy
   nutritional labels into the final interface of a food system , demonstrating
   the practical implementation of our approach . this user friendly interface
   empowers individuals with understandable dietary information to make
   informed choices , thus improving the nutritional quality of their food
   selections
DE food computing; fuzzy modeling; linguistic variables; natural language
   processing
ID food chemistry; adaptation systems; food computing; fuzzy linguistic
   variable; fuzzy modeling; health conscious; language processing; linguistic
   variable; natural language processing; natural languages; user friendly;
   food ingredients

---

UT 201
AR Bianco S, 2023, IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON - BERL ICCE-BERLIN, P82, DOI
   10.1109/ICCE-Berlin58801.2023.10375660
TI Food Recognition with Visual Transformers
AU Bianco S; Buzzelli M; Chiriaco G; Napoletano P; Piccoli F
TC 12
SO IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON - BERL ICCE-BERLIN
PY 2023
AB food recognition is a major challenge in the field of computer vision ,
   requiring models that can effectively handle the wide variability and
   complexity of food images . in this paper , we explore the use of vision
   transformers , a category of models based on self attention mechanisms , to
   address the task of food recognition . we focus on training and fine tuning
   different vision transformer architectures on food2k , a large scale dataset
   of food images with 2,000 categories . we compare the performance of vision
   transformers with convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) on food2k and
   food101 . in addition , we use state of the art explainability techniques to
   highlight the regions of interest that vision transformers take into account
   when performing a prediction . our results show that vision transformers can
   achieve competitive results on food recognition tasks , with the added
   benefit that pre training on food2k improve their generalization
   capabilities and interpretability . this study highlights the potential of
   vision transformers in food computing , paving the way for future research
   in this field
DE cnns; food recognition; visual transformers; vit
ID computer vision; convolutional neural networks; attention mechanisms;
   convolutional neural network; fine tuning; food image; food recognition;
   large-scale datasets; model-based opc; performance; visual transformer; vit;
   large dataset

---

UT 202
AR Treepong P, 2023, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V7, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2023.100574
TI Early bread mold detection through microscopic images using convolutional
   neural network: Early bread mold detection
AU Treepong P; Theera-Ampornpunt N
TC 12
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2023
AB mold on bread in the early stages of growth is difficult to discern with the
   naked eye . visual inspection and expiration dates are imprecise approaches
   that consumers rely on to detect bread spoilage . existing methods for
   detecting microbial contamination , such as inspection through a microscope
   and hyperspectral imaging , are unsuitable for consumer use . this paper
   proposes a novel early bread mold detection method through microscopic
   images taken using clip on lenses . these low cost lenses are used together
   with a smartphone to capture images of bread at 50 magnification . the
   microscopic images are automatically classified using state of the art
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) with transfer learning . we
   extensively compared image preprocessing methods , cnn models , and data
   augmentation methods to determine the best configuration in terms of
   classification accuracy . the top models achieved near perfect f1 scores of
   0.9948 for white sandwich bread and 0.9972 for whole wheat bread
DE food computing; food safety; image classification; microbiology
ID article; bread; controlled study; convolutional neural network; data
   augmentation; data processing; image analysis; image processing; microscopy;
   mold; nonhuman; transfer of learning; white bread; whole wheat bread

---

UT 203
AR Sadohara R, 2024, J CLIN NUTR, V119, P1301, DOI 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2024.02.014
TI Dietary pattern and diversity analysis using DietDiveR in R: a cross-
   sectional evaluation in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
AU Sadohara R; Jacobs D; Pereira MA; Johnson AJ
TC 11
SO J CLIN NUTR
PY 2024
AB background : there are few resources available for researchers aiming to
   conduct 24-h dietary record and recall analysis using r . objectives : we
   aimed to develop dietdiver , which is a toolkit of functions written in r
   for the analysis of recall or record data collected with the automated self
   administered 24-h dietary assessment tool or 2-d 24-h dietary recall data
   from the national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes ) . the r
   functions are intended for food and nutrition researchers who are not
   computational experts . methods : dietdiver provides users with functions to
   1 ) clean dietary data , 2 ) analyze 24-h dietary intakes in relation to
   other study specific metadata variables , 3 ) visualize percentages of
   energy intake from macronutrients , 4 ) perform principal component analysis
   or k means clustering to group participants by similar data driven dietary
   patterns , 5 ) generate foodtrees based on the hierarchical food group
   information for food items consumed , 6 ) perform principal coordinate
   analysis taking food grouping information into account , and 7 ) calculate
   diversity metrics for overall diet and specific food groups . dietdiver
   includes a self paced tutorial on a website . as a demonstration , we
   applied dietdiver to a demonstration data set and data from nhanes 20152016
   to derive a dietary diversity measure of nuts , seeds , and legumes
   consumption . results : adult participants in the nhanes 20152016 cycle were
   grouped depending on the diversity in their mean consumption of nuts , seeds
   , and legumes . the group with the highest diversity in nuts , seeds , and
   legumes consumption had 3.8 cm lower waist circumference ( 95 % confidence
   interval : 1.0 , 6.5 ) than those who did not consume nuts , seeds , and
   legumes . conclusions : dietdiver enables users to visualize dietary data
   and conduct data driven dietary pattern analyzes using r to answer research
   questions regarding diet . as a demonstration of this toolkit , we explored
   the diversity of nuts , seeds , and legumes consumption to highlight some of
   the ways dietdiver can be used for analyzes of dietary diversity . 2024
   american society for nutrition
DE asa24; diet; dietary diversity; food informatics; foodtree; hierarchical
   food classification; legumes; nhanes; r
ID adult; cross-sectional studies; diet; diet records; dietary patterns;
   feeding behavior; female; humans; male; middle aged; nutrition assessment;
   nutrition surveys; software; adult; article; benchmarking; caloric intake;
   cross-sectional study; diet; dietary intake; dietary pattern; drug therapy;
   fabaceae; female; human; human experiment; k-means clustering; legume;
   macronutrient; male; metadata; nut; nutrition; nutritional assessment; plant
   seed; principal component analysis; principal coordinate analysis; public
   health; waist circumference; feeding behavior; medical record; middle aged;
   software

---

UT 204
AR Ciccullo F, 2022, J CLEAN PROD, V340, DOI 10.1016/j.jclepro.2022.130673
TI Exploring the potential of business models for sustainability and big data
   for food waste reduction
AU Ciccullo F; Fabbri M; Abdelkafi N; Pero M
TC 78
SO J CLEAN PROD
PY 2022
AB because the volume of food waste is increasing , actions are required to
   mitigate the environmental and social impact of food waste generation . this
   paper investigates the business models of 41 selected startups ( technology
   and service providers ) to capture how companies avoid food waste or use
   food waste as a resource . the case study analysis , based on secondary
   sources , shows that some startup business models leverage big data
   analytics ( bda ) to avoid food waste by optimizing an existing linear
   supply chain , while other business models create value out of food waste by
   leveraging a circular food supply chain . we found that the latter business
   models are not fully exploiting the potential of bda . based on our findings
   , we derive three propositions and one corollary . whereas bda seems a
   necessary requirement for business models that are focused on optimizing a
   linear supply chain , it appears optional for business models closing the
   supply chain loop . the propositions also discuss the timing when startups
   should start developing bda capabilities depending on the business model
   type
DE big data; food waste reduction; sustainable business model
ID big data; data analytics; food supply; supply chains; business models; food
   waste; food waste reduction; linear supplies; social impact; sustainable
   business; sustainable business model; technology providers; waste
   generation; waste reduction; sustainable development

---

UT 205
AR Tripathi P, 2025, FED LEARN SMART AGRIC FOOD QUAL ENHANC, P1, DOI
   10.1002/9781394338726
TI Federated Learning for Smart Agriculture and Food Quality Enhancement
AU Tripathi P; Panda B; Makka S; Mishra R; Balamurugan S; Peng S-L
TC 0
SO FED LEARN SMART AGRIC FOOD QUAL ENHANC
PY 2025
AB this essential book provides a comprehensive , expert led guide on how
   federated learning can revolutionize crop yield , enhance resource
   management , and ensure a pathway to sustainable food quality and safety .
   the convergence of artificial intelligence , machine learning , and data
   science with agriculture and food , provides remarkable opportunities to
   improve quality , sustainability , and productivity in the agricultural
   sector . federated learning is a promising technology that has emerged at
   this intersection . in the context of smart agriculture , federated learning
   holds promise for improving crop yield , resource management , and decision
   making . additionally , federated learning provides greater clarity and
   understanding in the world of agriculture , encouraging stakeholders to
   explore and adopt this technology for improved farm management . readers
   will find the book : explores the integration of federated learning , a
   novel machine learning technique , into the realm of agriculture and food
   quality enhancement , showcasing the latest advancements . introduces real
   world applications of federated learning in agriculture , and demonstrates
   the way this technology can transform farming practices , crop monitoring ,
   pest control , and food quality assurance . by bridging the fields of
   agriculture , machine learning , and food science , it offers a holistic
   perspective on leveraging technology to address challenges in food
   production and quality management . emphasizes the importance of
   sustainability in agriculture , exploring how federated learning can
   contribute to more efficient resource utilization , reduced environmental
   impact , and the overall sustainability of food production systems .
   discusses the future directions of smart agriculture and food quality
   enhancement , envisioning how federated learning and other emerging
   technologies can continue to shape the industry and address evolving
   challenges . audience agriculture specialists , agricultural engineers ,
   professionals associated with food safety , crop managers , quality
   assurance professionals , it professionals , data scientists , and academics
   working toward improved quality and sustainability in agriculture
ID agribusiness; agricultural machinery; crops; data quality; environmental
   impact; food safety; learning systems; machine learning; quality control;
   resource allocation; smart agriculture; sustainable agriculture; sustainable
   development; agricultural sector; crop yield; decisions makings; food
   quality; food quality and safeties; machine data; machine learning; quality
   enhancement; resource management; smart agricultures; quality assurance

---

UT 206
AR AlKulaib L, 2026, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V16324 LNCS, P155, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-14107-1_14
TI TrendScope: A Temporal Hypergraph Framework for Food Trend Discovery
AU AlKulaib L
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2026
AB this paper presents trendscope , a temporal hypergraph based framework for
   detecting emergent food trends from social media . traditional models such
   as keyword bursts and pairwise graphs are limited in capturing the high
   order , multi entity relationships that characterize trend emergence .
   trendscope models each social post as a hyperedge connecting heterogeneous
   entities users , food items , hashtags , locations , and temporal bins thus
   preserving rich semantic interactions . a sequence of time indexed
   hypergraph snapshots is constructed and encoded using hypergraph neural
   networks . temporal aggregation is performed via attention based or
   recurrent mechanisms to learn expressive , time aware node embeddings . a
   composite scoring function , integrating temporal frequency shifts ,
   structural centrality changes , and semantic embedding divergence , ranks
   candidate food entities by trend significance . evaluations on real reddit
   data and a synthetic benchmark demonstrate superior performance over graph
   based and static hypergraph baselines in both trend accuracy and
   interpretability . the framework is scalable , interpretable , and
   applicable to industrial domains such as menu optimization , targeted
   marketing , and supply chain forecasting
DE food informatics; hypergraph neural networks; social media analysis;
   temporal hypergraphs; trend detection
ID embeddings; graph theory; graphic methods; neural networks; semantics;
   social networking ( online ); food informatic; food trends; hyper graph;
   hypergraph neural network; informatics; neural networks; social media
   analysis; temporal hypergraph; trend detection; benchmarking

---

UT 207
AR Upadhyay S, 2023, IMAGE BASED COMPUT FOOD HEAL ANAL REQUIR CHALLENGES
   SOLUTIONS PRACT IBCFHA, P1, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-22959-6_1
TI Food Computing Research Opportunities Using AI and ML
AU Upadhyay S; Goel G
TC 2
SO IMAGE BASED COMPUT FOOD HEAL ANAL REQUIR CHALLENGES SOLUTIONS PRACT IBCFHA
PY 2023
AB in the era of modernization , people are eating some foods to fill their
   stomach , without knowing the benefits or adverse effects of food . then
   with the emergence of artificial intelligence and machine learning ( ai and
   ml ) , there remains numerous scopes to solve such problems using suitable
   images datasets . then there are many promising working scopes in various
   fields like , food and nutrition , agriculture , food industry , packaging ,
   and health care . this work is designed to offer a wholistic view on the
   research opportunities that can be explored using image data sets of food
   images and exploiting the usage of ai and ml to solve various promising
   problems in these areas . broadly , this work discusses the data acquisition
   in such problem domains and then some of promising datasets available for
   working . various pretrained models available in the working domains . then
   various approaches to identify food objects from these datasets . these data
   sets ate useful in the rea of food industries like packaging the foods in
   automated packing . food computing offers many opportunities in healthcare
   as well for monitoring and tracking the health tracking the food items
   consumed . thus , food computing offers many research opportunities to be
   explored using image processing and machine learning
DE calorie estimation; food images; nutritional analysis; packaging

---

UT 208
AR van Erp M, 2021, FRONT ARTIF INTELL, V3, DOI 10.3389/frai.2020.621577
TI Using Natural Language Processing and Artificial Intelligence to Explore the
   Nutrition and Sustainability of Recipes and Food
AU van Erp M; Reynolds C; Maynard D; Starke A; Ibáñez Martín R; Andres F; Leite
   MCA; Alvarez de Toledo D; Schmidt Rivera X; Trattner C; Brewer S; Adriano
   Martins C; Kluczkovski A; Frankowska A; Bridle S; Levy RB; Rauber F; Tereza
   da Silva J; Bosma U
TC 59
SO FRONT ARTIF INTELL
PY 2021
AB in this paper , we discuss the use of natural language processing and
   artificial intelligence to analyze nutritional and sustainability aspects of
   recipes and food . we present the state of the art and some use cases ,
   followed by a discussion of challenges . our perspective on addressing these
   is that while they typically have a technical nature , they nevertheless
   require an interdisciplinary approach combining natural language processing
   and artificial intelligence with expert domain knowledge to create practical
   tools and comprehensive analysis for the food domain
DE computational recipe analysis; food computing; food history; food science;
   interdisciplinary; natural language processing; recommender systems;
   semantic web

---

UT 209
AR Talari G, 2022, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V126, P192, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2021.08.032
TI State of the art review of Big Data and web-based Decision Support Systems
   (DSS) for food safety risk assessment with respect to climate change
AU Talari G; Cummins E; McNamara C; O'Brien J
TC 89
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB technology is being developed to handle vast amounts of complex data from
   diverse sources . the terms ' big data ' and ' decision support systems ' (
   dss ) refer to computerized multidimensional data management systems that
   support stakeholders in making use of modern data driven approaches to
   identify and solve problems and to enable enhanced decision making . big
   data has become ubiquitous in food safety . information in the food supply
   chain is scattered and involves heterogenicity in format , scale ,
   geographical origin . also , interactions among environmental factors , food
   contamination , and foodborne diseases are complex , dynamic , and
   challenging to predict . therefore , this state of the art review article
   focuses on the underlying architecture of big data and web based
   technologies for food safety , focusing on climate change influences .
   challenges in adopting big data in food safety are presented , and future
   research directions regarding technologies / methods in the food supply
   chain are summarized and analyzed . the analysis and discussion provided aim
   to assist agri food researchers and stakeholders in taking initiatives and
   gathering insights on the application of big data and web based dss for food
   safety , which would alleviate challenges and facilitate the implementation
   of big data in food safety risk assessment while considering the possible
   implications of climate change
DE big data; climate change; decision support system; food safety; risk
   assessment; web-based technologies
ID artificial intelligence; big data; climate change; decision making; food
   safety; food supply; information management; risk assessment; supply chains;
   websites; complex data; data management system; food supply chain; food
   safety; multi-dimensional data management; risks assessments; safety risk
   assessments; state of the art reviews; web-based decision support systems;
   web-based technologies; decision support systems

---

UT 210
AR Zhou J, 2024, FOOD CONTROL, V164, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2024.110548
TI Progress towards achieving intelligent food assurance systems
AU Zhou J; Brereton P; Campbell K
TC 11
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2024
AB background : food assurance systems ( fas ) that are critical for protecting
   the quality and safety of food products can be defined as a systematic
   approach to ensuring the safety , quality , and authenticity of food
   products , from the initial production stage to the final consumption by the
   consumer . scope and approach : an intelligent food assurance system ( ifas
   ) is a proposed system that would have the ability to use intelligent
   sensors , data processing systems and other advanced technologies to detect
   and control the quality and safety of food . this review provides an
   overview of the current state of the art in food assurance systems , with a
   focus on the four components of food assurance : food quality , food safety
   , food authenticity , and food defense . an initial review of the scientific
   literature on food assurance was conducted in order to clarify their
   definitions and connections . this review provides a synopsis of the
   fundamental concepts and definitions of a fas , followed by a comprehensive
   review of recent advancements in smart food technology , such as precision
   agriculture systems , remote sensors and smart food management systems that
   would be required for an ifas . key findings and conclusion : a critical
   analysis of the challenges when building an ifas , and potential future
   directions are also discussed . furthermore , the possible influence of an
   ifas on enhancing transparency and traceability in the food chain , reducing
   loss and waste for sustainable development , and improving consumer
   confidence is highlighted
DE food assurance; food quality and safety; food risk assessment; food systems;
   intelligent technology; internet of food

---

UT 211
AR Kato R, 2026, CURR ISSUES MOL BIOL, V48, DOI 10.3390/cimb48010012
TI DPPH Measurement for Phenols and Prediction of Antioxidant Activity of
   Phenolic Compounds in Food
AU Kato R; Tada C; Yamauchi M; Matsumoto Y; Gotoh H
TC 0
SO CURR ISSUES MOL BIOL
PY 2026
AB consuming foods with high antioxidant capacity is considered beneficial to
   health , and predicting the antioxidant capacity of food components is
   important . in the 2,2-diphenyl 1-picrylhydrazyl ( dpph ) assay , multiple
   reactions occur simultaneously , and because the experimental conditions are
   not standardized across studies , quantitative prediction of dpph activity
   is difficult . in this study , we qualitatively and quantitatively predicted
   the dpph activity of phenols in food using data obtained under unified
   experimental conditions and machine learning . we measured dpph activity of
   96 compounds to create a dataset comprising measurements of 274 compounds ,
   including values previously reported by our laboratory . the classification
   model implemented using lightgbm showed high performance , achieving an
   accuracy of 0.88 and an f1 score of 0.86. the support vector regression
   model satisfied the golbraikhtropsha criteria , with an r2test of 0.70 ,
   rmsetest of 0.44 , q2 of 0.61 , and rmsevalidation of 0.46. furthermore ,
   the chemical validity of the prediction was confirmed by comparing the
   results of the machine learning model with those of previous studies . this
   method provides a basis for the quantitative prediction of dpph activity of
   numerous phenolic compounds in foods and is expected to contribute to the
   elucidation of the antioxidant capacity of foods
DE antioxidant capacity; dpph; food informatics; machine learning; phenol; qsar
ID 11 diphenyl 2 picrylhydrazyl; phenol; phenol derivative; accuracy;
   antioxidant activity; article; classification; correlation coefficient; dpph
   radical scavenging assay; food; histogram; ic50; machine learning; molecular
   weight; prediction; process optimization; quantum chemistry; root mean
   squared error; support vector machine; trolox equivalent antioxidant
   capacity

---

UT 212
AR Aktas E, 2024, AIP CONF PROC, V3109, DOI 10.1063/5.0204918
TI Big data applications in food supply chains
AU Aktas E
TC 3
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2024
AB food supply chains are characterized by innovation , not only in products
   but also in processes . this paper aims to identify big data applications in
   the food and drink sector and present its findings as a state of the art
   literature review . academic databases were searched using food or drink and
   big data keywords . scholarly publications from 2015 onward are identified
   and presented in broad categories of demand prediction and retail operations
   optimization . the review recognized big data applications as a great
   opportunity for food supply chains . the applications aimed 1 ) to
   understand the customer base and inform marketing communications strategy ,
   2 ) to predict demand and organize retail operations to meet this demand ,
   and 3 ) to optimize prices , assortment , and inventories based on demand
   patterns . applications in this review focused more on descriptive and
   predictive analytics than prescriptive analytics , possibly due to the
   emergent nature of these applications . descriptive analytics applications
   focused on capturing data , summarizing the status quo , and developing
   customer segments which can then be managed using varying marketing
   strategies . predictive analytics applications focused on demand prediction
   with novel approaches proposed by the machine learning community .
   prescriptive analytics applications aimed at promotion optimization and
   pricing for profit maximization . cognitive analytics applications extracted
   customer reviews from online stores to inform which products should be
   marketed in what way . the review offers managerial insights on
   circumstances where big data analytics could prove beneficial . managerial
   implications suggest that data integrators enable big data applications by
   ensuring the data collected are accurate , timely , and complete to inform
   descriptive , predictive , and prescriptive analytical models

---

UT 213
AR Hou M, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15101795
TI AGREE-YOLO: A Framework for Seafood Recognition and Cross-Cultural
   Gastronomic Recommendation
AU Hou M; Liu S/3; Wei J; Zhi K; Liu M/4; Lin C
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB real time visual recognition systems integrated with culturally adaptive
   reasoning are urgently demanded in globalized culinary scenarios . an agent
   oriented framework , agent based gastronomy recommender enhanced engine with
   yolo ( agree yolo ) , is proposed in this study , which integrates an
   optimized lightweight yolov13 detector and vision language model ( vlm )
   -driven agents for cross cultural seafood recipe recommendation . the
   improved yolov13 is equipped with group shuffle convolution ( gsconv )
   modules and wise iou ( wiou ) loss , which is validated on a refined
   underwater seafood dataset targeting sea cucumbers , sea urchins and
   scallops . it achieves 91.2 % precision and 87.3 % recall , with 3.9 % and
   4.2 % increments over the baseline model , and maintains 2.0 ms inference
   speed . detection outputs are structured and stored in a mysql database ,
   and a novel chatflow pipeline is constructed in the dify platform to support
   natural language database querying . vlm powered agents retrieve structured
   data and generate culturally tailored recipes and dish images automatically
   . operational validation verifies that the end to end pipeline realizes
   seamless conversion from seafood images to personalized cross cultural
   recommendations . this work provides an integrated solution for intelligent
   , culturally adaptive gastronomy in food informatics
DE agent-based systems; deep learning; food style; seafood recognition; vision
   language models
ID article; data base; deep learning; human; language model; nonhuman;
   reasoning; scallop; sea cucumber; sea food; sea urchin; velocity; visual
   memory

---

UT 214
AR Jang J, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11193029
TI Analysis of Food Delivery Using Big Data: Comparative Study before and after
   COVID-19
AU Jang J; Lee E; Jung H
TC 10
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB this study examined consumers change in perception related to food delivery
   using big data before and after the covid 19 crisis . this study identified
   words closely associated with the keyword ' food delivery ' based on big
   data from social media and investigated consumers perceptions of and needs
   for food delivery and related issues before and after covid 19 . results
   were derived through analysis methods such as text mining analysis , concor
   analysis , and sentiment analysis . the research findings can be summarized
   as follows : in 2019 , frequently appearing dining related words were '
   dining out , ' ' delivery , ' ' famous restaurant , ' ' delivery food , ' '
   foundation , ' ' dish , ' ' family order , ' and ' delicious . ' in 2021 ,
   these words were ' delivery , ' ' delivery food , ' ' famous restaurant , '
   ' foundation , ' ' covid 19 , ' ' dish , ' ' order , ' ' application , ' and
   ' family . ' the analysis results for the food delivery sentimental network
   based on 2019 data revealed discourses revolving around delicious , delivery
   food , lunch box , and korean food . for the 2021 data , discourses revolved
   around delivery food , recommend , and delicious . the emotional analysis ,
   which extracted positive and negative words from the ' food delivery '
   search word data , demonstrated that the number of positive keywords
   decreased by 2.85 % , while negative keywords increased at the same rate .
   in addition , compared to the pre covid 19 pandemic era , a weakening trend
   in positive emotions and an increasing trend in negative emotions were
   detected after the outbreak of the covid 19 pandemic . sub emotions under
   the positive category ( e . g . , good feelings , joy , interest ) decreased
   in 2021 compared to 2019 , whereas sub emotions under the negative category
   ( e . g . , sadness , fear , pain ) increased
DE big data; covid-19 pandemic; dining out trend; food delivery; social media

---

UT 215
AR Long G, 2022, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA, P4084, DOI
   10.1109/BigData55660.2022.10020629
TI Privacy-preserving & machine-learned catchment models for national dietary
   surveillance via digital footprint data
AU Long G; Harvey J; Smith G; Nica-Avram G; Engelmann G; Goulding J
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA
PY 2022
AB big data from food retail stores is increasingly being used for population
   dietary surveillance , epidemiological studies of diet related diseases ,
   and evaluations of public health interventions . however , for retail data
   to be useful it is necessary to understand the spatio temporal variation of
   when and where food is purchased and consumed . while some customers
   willingly share home location data with retailers as part of loyalty
   programs such data is typically too fine grained / sensitive to be applied
   for research purposes . the aim of this study was to analyze differences
   between privacy preserving models and actual retail catchments , and
   investigate if machine learning techniques could improve the accuracy of
   such catchment models . based on a uk wide sample of 4 million grocery store
   loyalty card holders , covering 485 million transactions over 29 months (
   2019-2021 ) and distributed across 33,000 neighborhoods ( lower super output
   areas , or lsoa ) , the study demonstrates how models trained on geolocated
   data perform at predicting , per store , catchment areas which contain 50 ,
   80 , and 95 % of its customers primary location . through comparative
   assessment of machine learning approaches , we find better performance from
   tree based models ( rf , xgb ) with the best performance from an xgb model
   achieving an r2 of 0.72 and mae of 1.06. to conclude , we review variable
   importance measures using shap values and discuss the relative merits of
   including specific features when modeling catchment areas
DE catchment models; digital footprints; machine learning; optimization;
   privacy preservation
ID e-learning; learning systems; machine learning; population statistics;
   privacy-preserving techniques; retail stores; runoff; sales; catchment area;
   catchment models; digital footprint; epidemiological studies; health
   interventions; machine learning; optimizations; performance; privacy
   preservation; privacy-preserving; catchments

---

UT 216
AR Hussein JB, 2025, APPL FOOD RES, V5, DOI 10.1016/j.afres.2025.101234
TI A review on the impact of big data analytics in transforming agricultural
   practices, food processing, and preservation strategies
AU Hussein JB; Workneh TS; Kassim A; Ntsowe K; Melesse SF; El-Mesery HS/1
TC 6
SO APPL FOOD RES
PY 2025
AB information systems and big data analytics ( bda ) are becoming increasingly
   vital for finding solutions to challenging problems in food and agriculture
   . big data is used a lot in food distribution and retail , but not enough in
   production , making decisions , and making things last . bda employs
   advanced techniques like machine learning and artificial intelligence to
   aggregate multiple data types , such as sensor data , satellite photos , and
   weather forecasts . it then looks for usable information that may be
   utilized to improve farming , food processing , and preservation . this
   systematic review brings together the most recent developments and
   highlights trends , issues , and areas where more research is needed on
   applying bda in the agri food sector . it highlights how bda may improve
   quality assurance , precision agriculture , supply chain optimization , and
   sustainable food systems . the main challenges are related to how data can
   be shared across systems , problems with infrastructure , privacy concerns
   and differences in how quickly stakeholders adopt these technologies .
   therefore , the review suggested that future research should focus on
   interdisciplinary collaboration , addressing ethical considerations , and
   developing robust data governance frameworks to fully realize big data s
   potential in transforming food s future . the ethical and regulatory
   frameworks need to keep pace with advances in technology
DE artificial intelligence; big data analytics; data-driven preservation; food
   processing; food system; sustainable agriculture
ID agricultural procedures; bibliometrics; big data; climate change; crop
   management; data analytics; environmental impact; environmental monitoring;
   food preservation; food processing; food safety; food security; human;
   interdisciplinary communication; livestock; precision agriculture; preferred
   reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses; publication;
   quality control; review; stakeholder engagement; supply chain; sustainable
   agriculture

---

UT 217
AR Gupta SK, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15617 LNCS, P76, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-88217-3_6
TI Enhancing FKG.in: Automating Indian Food Composition Analysis
AU Gupta SK; Dey L; Das PP; Trilok-Kumar G; Jain R
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB this paper presents a novel approach to compute food composition data for
   indian recipes using a knowledge graph for indian food ( fkg . in ) and llms
   . the primary focus is to provide a broad overview of an automated food
   composition analysis workflow and describe its core functionalities :
   nutrition data aggregation , food composition analysis , and llm augmented
   information resolution . this workflow aims to complement fkg . in and
   iteratively supplement food composition data from verified knowledge bases .
   additionally , this paper highlights the challenges of representing indian
   food and accessing food composition data digitally . it also reviews three
   key sources of food composition data : the indian food composition tables ,
   the indian nutrient databank , and the nutritionix api . furthermore , it
   briefly outlines how users can interact with the workflow to obtain diet
   based health recommendations and detailed food composition information for
   numerous recipes . we then explore the complex challenges of analyzing
   indian recipe information across dimensions such as structure ,
   multilingualism , and uncertainty as well as present our ongoing work on llm
   based solutions to address these issues . the methods proposed in this
   workshop paper for ai driven knowledge curation and information resolution
   are application agnostic , generalizable , and replicable for any domain
DE food computing; indian food; knowledge engineering; large language models;
   nutrition informatics; semantic reasoning
ID breadmaking; brining; flavors; functional food; processed foods; thermal
   processing ( foods ); vitamins; composition analysis; composition data; food
   compositions; food computing; indian food; informatics; language model;
   large language model; nutrition informatic; semantic reasoning; dietary
   supplements

---

UT 218
AR Li K, 2023, FOODS, V12, DOI 10.3390/foods12081596
TI Analysis of Cross-Regional Transfer of Food Safety Risks and Its Influencing
   Factors—An Empirical Study of Five Provinces in East China
AU Li K; Yin S; Chen Y/1
TC 11
SO FOODS
PY 2023
AB the cross regional transfer of food safety risks has become more prominent ,
   bringing new challenges to food safety regulation . this study used a social
   network analysis to delve into the nuanced features and determinants of the
   cross regional transfer of food safety risks based on the food safety
   inspection data of five provinces in east china from 2016 to 2020 , thus
   contributing to the establishment of effective cross regional cooperation in
   food safety regulation . the main findings are as follows : first , the
   cross regional transfer of unqualified products accounts for 36.09 % of all
   unqualified products . second , the food safety risk transfer network
   presents a typical complex network a relatively low but increasing network
   density , heterogeneous nodes , numerous subgroups , and a dynamic structure
   bringing more difficulties to food safety cross regional cooperation . third
   , territorial regulation and intelligent supervision both contribute to
   restricting cross regional transfers . however , the advantages of
   intelligent supervision have not yet been brought into play due to low data
   utilization . fourth , the development of the food industry helps to
   mitigate the cross regional transfer of food safety risks . to achieve
   effective cross regional cooperation in food safety risks , it is essential
   to use food safety big data as a guide and to maintain synchronization
   between the development of the food industry and the improvement of
   regulations
DE cross-regional cooperation; cross-regional transfer of food safety risks; fe
   model with driscollkraay standard errors; intelligent supervision; social
   network analysis

---

UT 219
AR Nguyen H-T, 2022, PATTERN RECOGN, V124, DOI 10.1016/j.patcog.2021.108470
TI SibNet: Food instance counting and segmentation
AU Nguyen H-T; Ngo C-W; Chan W-K
TC 16
SO PATTERN RECOGN
PY 2022
AB food computing has recently attracted considerable research attention due to
   its significance for health risk analysis . in the literature , the majority
   of research efforts are dedicated to food recognition . relatively few works
   are conducted for food counting and segmentation , which are essential for
   portion size estimation . this paper presents a deep neural network , named
   sibnet , for simultaneous counting and extraction of food instances from an
   image . the problem is challenging due to varying size and shape of food as
   well as arbitrary viewing angle of camera , not to mention that food
   instances often occlude each other . sibnet is novel for proposal of
   learning seed map to minimize the overlap between instances . the map
   facilitates counting and can be completed as an instance segmentation map
   that depicts the arbitrary shape and size of individual instance under
   occlusion . to this end , a novel sibling relation sub network is proposed
   for pixel connectivity analysis . along with this paper , three new datasets
   covering western , chinese and japanese food are also constructed for
   performance evaluation . the three datasets and sibnet source code are
   publicly available
DE food counting; food instance segmentation
ID deep neural networks; health risks; instance segmentation; risk analysis;
   arbitrary shape; food computing; food counting; food instance segmentation;
   health risk analysis; research efforts; segmentation map; size and shape;
   size estimation; viewing angle; risk assessment

---

UT 220
AR Mandal S/1, 2025, SMART FARMING SMARTER SOLUTIONS REVOLUTIONIZING AGRIC
   ARTIF INTELL, P246, DOI 10.1201/9781003536932-12
TI Enhancing Food Safety and Quality Assurance through Artificial Intelligence
AU Mandal S/1; Kiran PR; Mandal S; Aradwad P
TC 0
SO SMART FARMING SMARTER SOLUTIONS REVOLUTIONIZING AGRIC ARTIF INTELL
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is increasingly employed to enhance food
   safety and quality assurance in food industry . ai tools , including
   predictive analytics , automated inspection , and real time monitoring ,
   significantly improve the identification , prevention , and management of
   food related risks . food safety is particularly critical in perishable
   items like poultry , dairy , fruits , vegetables , and stored products such
   as cereals , pulses , and oilseeds throughout the supply chain to prevent
   disease outbreaks . traditional methods of food inspection are often time
   consuming and prone to human error , while ai based systems automate
   inspection processes , analyzing images or sensor data to detect defects or
   contaminants more accurately and efficiently . for instance , computer
   vision algorithms identify foreign objects or physical defects , while
   spectroscopic techniques analyze food sample compositions . predictive
   analytics , a vital ai application , uses machine learning algorithms to
   forecast potential foodborne illnesses or quality issues by analyzing
   extensive datasets . this chapter aims to offer an in depth analysis of ai s
   critical role in the food safety . it explores how technologies like deep
   learning , machine learning , and artificial neural networks are utilized in
   different food products to maintain a smooth supply chain . also ,
   underscores ai s critical role in enhancing food safety and quality ,
   discusses its benefits , and outlines future prospects . 2026 manojit
   chowdhury , nand lal kushwaha and gourav dhar bhowmick .
ID accident prevention; chemical contamination; deep learning; defects; food
   safety; food storage; inspection; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   neural networks; quality assurance; supply chains; artificial intelligence
   tools; automated inspection; disease outbreaks; food industries; food
   quality; food safety; inspection time; perishable items; real time
   monitoring; related risk; predictive analytics

---

UT 221
AR Dakhia Z, 2025, SENSORS, V25, DOI 10.3390/s25072147
TI AI-Enabled IoT for Food Computing: Challenges, Opportunities, and Future
   Directions
AU Dakhia Z; Russo M; Merenda M
TC 67
SO SENSORS
PY 2025
AB food computing refers to the integration of digital technologies , such as
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) , the internet of things ( iot ) , and data
   driven approaches , to address various challenges in the food sector . it
   encompasses a wide range of technologies that improve the efficiency ,
   safety , and sustainability of food systems , from production to consumption
   . it represents a transformative approach to addressing challenges in the
   food sector by integrating ai , the iot , and data driven methodologies .
   unlike traditional food systems , which primarily focus on production and
   safety , food computing leverages ai for intelligent decision making and the
   iot for real time monitoring , enabling significant advancements in areas
   such as supply chain optimization , food safety , and personalized nutrition
   . this review highlights ai applications , including computer vision for
   food recognition and quality assessment , natural language processing for
   recipe analysis , and predictive modeling for dietary recommendations .
   simultaneously , the iot enhances transparency and efficiency through real
   time monitoring , data collection , and device connectivity . the
   convergence of these technologies relies on diverse data sources , such as
   images , nutritional databases , and user generated logs , which are
   critical to enabling traceability and tailored solutions . despite its
   potential , food computing faces challenges , including data heterogeneity ,
   privacy concerns , scalability issues , and regulatory constraints . to
   address these , this paper explores solutions like federated learning for
   secure on device data processing and blockchain for transparent traceability
   . emerging trends , such as edge ai for real time analytics and sustainable
   practices powered by aiiot integration , are also discussed . this review
   offers actionable insights to advance the food sector through innovative and
   ethical technological frameworks
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); food computing; food traceability; internet
   of things ( iot ); supply chain optimization
ID artificial intelligence; food; humans; internet of things; artificial
   intelligence; data-driven approach; digital technologies; food computing;
   food sector; food system; food traceabilitys; internet of thing; real time
   monitoring; supply chain optimization; artificial intelligence; food; human;
   internet of things; federated learning

---

UT 222
AR Vazquez-Noguerol M, 2025, INT J PROD ECON, V280, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijpe.2024.109497
TI Application of analytics in food retailing to improve online order picking
   time estimations
AU Vazquez-Noguerol M; Prado-Prado JC
TC 3
SO INT J PROD ECON
PY 2025
AB offering a good online grocery shopping service is becoming an increasingly
   crucial aspect for food retailers due to the highly competitive nature of
   this sector . to avoid large investments , many supermarket chains have
   adopted an in store strategy , where online orders are picked in traditional
   stores . in order to successfully implement this omnichannel strategy ,
   retailers need to plan shared organizational structures and methods
   correctly . the purpose of this study is to determine the extent to which
   certain characteristics of store and online orders influence the order
   picking time . through an empirical analysis conducted in a spanish e grocer
   , a multiple linear regression model is proposed to estimate online order
   picking time . the research method proposed herein enables e grocers to plan
   fulfillment operations , organize resources properly , and define and adjust
   their capacity to respond efficiently to market demand . we present an
   innovative research application that deeply integrates analytics into retail
   operations to improve industry practice and strengthen the theoretical
   foundation . our contribution serves to support and evaluate the informed
   decision making process along the supply chain by optimizing the use of
   resources and facilitating more efficient online order picking scheduling
DE analytics; digitalisation; e-commerce; online grocery retailers; retail
ID analytic; digitalization; e- commerces; food retailing; grocery retailer;
   online grocery retailer; online orders; order-picking; picking time; retail;
   food industry

---

UT 223
AR [Anonymous], 2025, AGRITECH REVOLUT NEXT-GEN SOLUTIONS CHALLENGES MOD AGRIC,
   P349, DOI 10.1007/978-981-95-1268-3_18
TI Blockchain Technology in Agri-Food Supply Chains
TC 0
SO AGRITECH REVOLUT NEXT-GEN SOLUTIONS CHALLENGES MOD AGRIC
PY 2025
AB the agricultural food ( agri food ) supply chain is a composite web that
   involves numerous stakeholders , from producers and processors to
   distributors , retailers , and customers . even though it is a key part in
   world s food security and trade , it is plagued by various challenges like
   food fraud , safety concerns , ineptitudes , and an absence of transparency
   . to fill these lacunas and address key obstacles , blockchain technology
   has grown as a transformative answer due to its decentralized , immutable ,
   and transparent nature . the integration and application of blockchain
   technology into agri food supply chains possess the capacity to transform
   food safety , traceability , and transaction automation and improve trust
   among stakeholders . by utilizing the immutable and decentralized features
   of blockchain , stakeholders can follow and trace food commodities from farm
   to fork , guaranteeing authenticity and reducing threats correlated with
   contamination or fraud . it can even be seamlessly integrated with
   complementary technologies including the artificial intelligence ( ai ) ,
   internet of things ( iot ) , and large scale data analytics to further
   augment food safety and supply chain efficiency . real life applications ,
   for instance ibm food trust and walmart s blockchain initiatives ,
   demonstrate how the technology can be successfully leveraged to strengthen
   supply chain resilience . despite its promise , blockchain adoption in the
   agri food supply sector is not without difficulties such as scalability
   hurdles , implementation expenses , regulatory barriers , and resistance
   from traditional industry players . by providing a comprehensive analysis ,
   this chapter critically examines these challenges while outlining future
   trends , policy developments , and potential opportunities for stakeholders
   in the agri food industry that might further drive blockchain s adoption in
   the agri food industry
DE blockchain; digitization; internet of things; supply chain
ID accident prevention; agri-food; agriculture; chemical contamination; crime;
   food safety; food security; food supply; information systems; network
   security; agri-food supply chains; agricultural foods; blockchain;
   decentralized; digitization; food industries; food security; food supply
   chain; food safety; key parts; blockchain; internet of things; supply chains

---

UT 224
AR Zhang D/4, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V499, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.147281
TI Practical guide for food scientists to build AI: data, algorithms, and
   applications
AU Zhang D/4
TC 4
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is rapidly transforming scientific
   disciplines , yet its adoption in food science remains fragmented and often
   constrained to narrow application scenarios . this perspective provides a
   practical guide for food scientists to build effective ai models , grounded
   in the premise that sustainable progress depends on advancing three
   foundational pillars in tandem : ( 1 ) high quality datasets to enable new
   application scenarios . ( 2 ) tailored algorithms addressing food science
   challenges . and ( 3 ) impactful applications that yield new scientific
   insights and / or industrial value . we discuss how each pillar contributes
   to ai in food science and the state of the art methods ( e . g . , large
   language models , high throughput platforms , physics informed neural
   networks , and multimodal fusion ) that support each pillar . building on
   these insights , we propose a checklist to help food scientists plan ,
   develop , evaluate , and deploy ai models . aligning future work with these
   pillars and the checklist may foster more ai driven discovery and accelerate
   innovation across the food sector
DE food chemistry; food informatics; large language models; machine learning;
   multi-modal fusion; physics-informed neural networks
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; food technology; humans; food industry;
   food science; neural networks; food chemistry; food informatic; food
   science; informatics; language model; large language model; machine
   learning; multi-modal fusion; neural networks; physic-informed neural
   network; algorithm; artificial intelligence; drug development; human; large
   language model; machine learning; nerve cell network; nutritional science;
   review; scientist; systematic review; algorithm; artificial intelligence;
   food handling; procedures; food chemistry

---

UT 225
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2026, MULTIMED SYST, V32, DOI 10.1007/s00530-025-02151-3
TI A multimodal deep learning framework for nutritional estimation and health-
   oriented recipe analysis
AU Morales-Garzón A; Quiñones-Muñoz A; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 0
SO MULTIMED SYST
PY 2026
AB unhealthy diets and poor nutrition are major risk factors for various
   diseases . traditional ai based methods for nutritional estimation often
   rely solely on image analysis , limiting their accuracy . this paper
   introduces a multimodal ai approach that combines visual and textual
   information from recipes to improve the estimation of calories ,
   macronutrients , and ingredient details in support of healthier food choices
   . our method integrates image embeddings from convolutional neural networks
   with text representations from sentence transformers . we evaluate our
   approach through comparative experiments and validate it using world health
   organization ( who ) nutritional guidelines , expert assessments , and a
   user survey involving individuals with varying levels of nutrition knowledge
   . results show that our model achieves 88.12 % accuracy in predicting recipe
   healthiness and outperforms state of the art methods in aligning with
   individual nutrition goals . the best performance was achieved by freezing
   both cnn and sentence bert layers while training only the multimodal fusion
   component . expanding the nutritional targets further improved estimation
   quality , with over 80 % agreement between human evaluations and expert
   judgments . these findings highlight the potential of our approach to bridge
   the gap between recipes and personalized nutritional insights . the author (
   s ) , under exclusive license to springer verlag gmbh germany , part of
   springer nature 2026 .
DE food computing; healthy diet; multi-modal learning; nutritional estimation;
   sentence transformers
ID food ingredients; neural networks; nutrition; text processing; thermal
   processing ( foods ); food computing; healthy diet; image analyze; image
   analysis; learning frameworks; multi-modal; multi-modal learning;
   nutritional estimation; risk factors; sentence transformer; deep learning

---

UT 226
AR Krupitzer C, 2021, FOODS, V10, DOI 10.3390/foods10112889
TI Food informatics—review of the current state-of-the-art, revised definition,
   and classification into the research landscape
AU Krupitzer C; Stein A
TC 21
SO FOODS
PY 2021
AB background : the increasing population of humans , changing food consumption
   behavior , as well as the recent developments in the awareness for food
   sustainability , lead to new challenges for the production of food .
   advances in the internet of things ( iot ) and artificial intelligence ( ai
   ) technology , including machine learning and data analytics , might help to
   account for these challenges . scope and approach : several research
   perspectives , among them precision agriculture , industrial iot , internet
   of food , or smart health , already provide new opportunities through
   digitalization . in this paper , we review the current state of the art of
   the mentioned concepts . an additional concept is food informatics , which
   so far is mostly recognized as a mainly data driven approach to support the
   production of food . in this review paper , we propose and discuss a new
   perspective for the concept of food informatics as a supportive discipline
   that subsumes the incorporation of information technology , mainly iot and
   ai , in order to support the variety of aspects tangent to the food
   production process and delineate it from other , existing research streams
   in the domain . key findings and conclusions : many different concepts
   related to the digitalization in food science overlap . further , food
   informatics is vaguely defined . in this paper , we provide a clear
   definition of food informatics and delineate it from related concepts . we
   corroborate our new perspective on food informatics by presenting several
   case studies about how it can support the food production as well as the
   intermediate steps until its consumption , and further describe its
   integration with related concepts
DE food computing; food informatics; food supply chain management; internet of
   food; internet of things; precision agriculture; smart agriculture

---

UT 227
AR Asharindavida F, 2023, J VERBRAUCHERSCHUTZ LEB, V18, P415, DOI
   10.1007/s00003-023-01439-8
TI Miniature spectrometer data analytics for food fraud
AU Asharindavida F; Nibouche O; Uhomoibhi J; Liu J/7; Vincent J; Wang H
TC 4
SO J VERBRAUCHERSCHUTZ LEB
PY 2023
AB machine learning has been extensively used for analyzing spectral data in
   food quality management . however , collecting high quality spectral data
   from miniature spectrometers outside the laboratory is challenging due to
   various factors such as distortions , noise , high dimensionality , and
   collinearity . this paper presents an in depth analysis of food datasets
   collected from miniature spectrometers to evaluate the data quality and
   characteristics , by focusing on a case study of olive oil quality check ,
   where various machine learning models were applied to differentiate pure and
   adulterated olive oil . furthermore , the impact of pre processing
   techniques on data distortions was studied . it presents a comprehensive
   pipeline , including data pre processing , dimension reduction ,
   classification , and regression analysis , and deploys different algorithms
   for comparative classification and regression analysis . the model
   performances were assessed using 2 separate methods : tenfold cross
   validation on an entire dataset with 10 % random testing , and an entire
   test set collected in different environments ( multi session validation ) .
   the first validation approach reached classification rates of up to 96.73 %
   , while the second achieved 83.32 % . these results demonstrate that cost
   effective miniature spectrometers augmented with a suitable machine learning
   pipeline could execute classification tasks on par with non portable and
   more expensive spectrometers . furthermore , the study highlights the
   requirement of specialized algorithms to handle different ambient conditions
   affecting data acquisition and to eliminate performance gaps , making
   miniature spectrometers suitable for in situ scenarios . this work extends
   previous research to enable consumers becoming the first line in the defense
   against food fraud
DE classification; classifier combination; food fraud; machine learning; olive
   oil authenticity; portable spectrometers; spectral data

---

UT 228
AR Komariah KS, 2023, INFORMATICS, V10, DOI 10.3390/informatics10010010
TI SMPT: A Semi-Supervised Multi-Model Prediction Technique for Food Ingredient
   Named Entity Recognition (FINER) Dataset Construction
AU Komariah KS; Purnomo AT; Satriawan A; Hasanuddin MO; Setianingsih C; Sin B-K
TC 11
SO INFORMATICS
PY 2023
AB to pursue a healthy lifestyle , people are increasingly concerned about
   their food ingredi ents . recently , it has become a common practice to use
   an online recipe to select the ingredients that match an individual s meal
   plan and healthy diet preference . the information from online recipes can
   be extracted and used to develop various food related applications . named
   entity recognition ( ner ) is often used to extract such information .
   however , the problem in building an ner system lies in the massive amount
   of data needed to train the classifier , especially on a specific domain ,
   such as food . there are food ner datasets available , but they are still
   quite limited . thus , we proposed an iterative self training approach
   called semi supervised multi model prediction technique ( smpt ) to
   construct a food ingredient ner dataset . smpt is a deep ensemble learning
   model that employs the concept of self training and uses multiple pre
   trained language models in the iterative data labeling process , with a
   voting mechanism used as the final decision to determine the entity s label
   . utilizing the smpt , we have created a new annotated dataset of ingredient
   entities obtained from the allrecipes website named finer . finally , this
   study aims to use the finer dataset as an alternative resource to support
   food computing research and development
DE data creation; ensemble voting; ingredient entity extraction; named entity
   recognition; pre-trained language model; self-training

---

UT 229
AR Adrian WT, 2023, CEUR WORK PROC, V3485
TI Reasoning about Ingredient Substitutions with Ontologies and Rules
AU Adrian WT; Kutyła M; Potoniec J; Ławrynowicz A
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2023
AB preparing healthy and delicious meals requires knowledge about the process ,
   nutritional properties of the ingredients , and their combinations . when we
   face the need for substitution in a dish , e . g . , for allergic or dietary
   reasons , we should know how removing one element and adding another
   influences the resulting experience . the paper proposes an ontology based
   model for reasoning about ingredient substitution in food recipes , enhanced
   with a logic programming component for constraint satisfaction and
   optimization . this opens up possibilities for computer aided decision
   support in the area of substitute recommendation
DE answer set programming; computational food; internet of food; knowledge
   representation; logic programming; ontologies
ID computation theory; computer circuits; decision support systems; knowledge
   representation; nutrition; ontology; technology transfer; answer set
   programming; computational food; internet of food; knowledge representation;
   logic programming; nutritional properties; ontologies and rules; ontology-
   based modeling; ontologys; programming components; logic programming

---

UT 230
AR Chen L/2, 2021, J PHYS CONF SER, V1744, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1744/3/032150
TI Research on the Application of Big Data Technology in Food Safety Management
AU Chen L/2; Ruan Y
TC 4
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2021
AB when we think of the term food , we think of all kinds of eating and
   drinking related to our health . of course , what we should think of most is
   the health of the body . in the form of today s data , computer technology
   plays a very distinct role in the safety management of some well known food
   companies at home and abroad [ 1 ] . since the establishment of the food
   industry , foreign food safety management technologies have been synthesized
   by computers . as far as my country s food technology is concerned , we
   still use a combination of manual and electronic machinery for food safety
   management . there is no doubt that the efficiency of this management method
   is very low . in order to greatly improve this efficiency , we should use
   big data technology in food safety management to conduct multi faceted
   research
DE big data; food; safety management
ID big data; efficiency; food safety; machinery; computer technology; data
   technologies; food companies; food industries; food safety management;
   management method; safety management; accident prevention

---

UT 231
AR Shang X/2, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15042 LNCS, P462, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-8858-3_32
TI MRFNet: A Multi-receptive-Field Fusion Network for Multi-food Recognition
AU Shang X/2; Chen J/3; Liu X/4
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB food recognition , as a fundamental task in food computing , plays a crucial
   role in downstream tasks such as nutritional assessment and dietary
   management . recognizing multiple food items in a single image aligns more
   closely with real dietary environments . however , there is a relative
   scarcity of publicly available chinese cuisine multi food image datasets in
   this field . despite the numerous studies focused on single food recognition
   , those approaches do not apply to multi food recognition due to significant
   intra category variations and high inter category similarities among
   multiple food items present in a single image . to address the first issue ,
   we create a large scale chinese cuisine multi food image dataset , jnu
   foodnet162 , consisting of 35,365 images across 162 categories . in response
   to the second question , we propose a multi receptive field fusion network (
   mrfnet ) for multi food recognition , which captures unique fine grained
   features of chinese food images using the multi receptive field pyramid
   network , fuses feature information from different receptive fields through
   the detailed and semantic information fusion network and finally adds a
   small food image prediction head to achieve recognition of small food . the
   experimental results indicate that mrfnet achieves state of the art mean map
   values on jnu foodnet162 , jnu foodnet , uec food 100 , and uec food 256
DE food computing; multi-food recognition; multi-receptive-field
ID dietary management; down-stream; food computing; food image; image datasets;
   large-scales; multi-food recognition; multi-receptive-field; receptive
   fields; single images; food ingredients

---

UT 232
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2023, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V14113 LNAI, P107, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-42935-4_9
TI How Tasty Is This Dish?  Studying User-Recipe Interactions with a Rating
   Prediction Algorithm and Graph Neural Networks
AU Morales-Garzón A; Morcillo-Jimenez R; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista
   MJ
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB food computing has gained significant attention in recent years due to its
   direct relation to our health , habits , and cultural traditions . food
   related data have been extensively studied , and graph based solutions have
   emerged to combine user recipe data for various purposes , such as recipe
   recommendation and food data alignment tasks . in this study , we propose a
   graph based approach to predict the rating a specific user would give a
   recipe , harnessing the structured form of user recipe interaction data .
   the approach incorporates two additional features into the user recipe
   interactions graph : 1 ) user recipe review embeddings generated by a
   sentence based transformer model and 2 ) a selection of healthy recipe
   features inferred from nutritional content and international nutrition
   standards . results obtained from experiments on a publicly available
   dataset demonstrate that the proposed method achieves competitive
   performance compared to recent advancements
DE food computing; heterogeneous graph; natural language processing; recipe
   rating
ID graph neural networks; graphic methods; knowledge graph; natural language
   processing systems; cultural traditions; food computing; graph neural
   networks; heterogeneous graph; language processing; natural language
   processing; natural languages; prediction algorithms; prediction graph;
   recipe rating; nutrition

---

UT 233
AR Bekkouche S, 2025, BLOCKCHAIN, V8, DOI 10.3389/fbloc.2025.1701872
TI Digitalization in the European agri-food supply chain: a scoping review of
   traceability, transparency, and sustainability
AU Bekkouche S; de-Magistris T
TC 2
SO BLOCKCHAIN
PY 2025
AB introduction : maintaining traceability within the food supply chain is key
   to ensuring food safety , quality , and regulatory compliance . in recent
   years , digital technologies especially blockchain have been adopted to
   enhance transparency and trust in 'farm to fork traceability systems ,
   reducing fraud risk and enhancing recall management and strengthening
   consumer trust . however , their adoption differs based on variability in
   technological readiness , economic viability , and regulatory requirements .
   methods : this paper provides a scoping review of the application of such
   digital tools to enhance traceability throughout the european agri food
   supply chain . being applied across the european agri food supply chain to
   improve traceability . following prisma scr guidelines , we searched
   multiple databases ( web of science , proquest , ieee xplore , alcorze ) for
   relevant literature and included 60 peer reviewed studies ( primarily
   20102025 ) that met our criteria ( focus on blockchain , iot , ai , or big
   data in european food supply chain traceability ) . results and discussion :
   blockchain emerged as the most frequently studied technology for food
   traceability -appearing in over 40 % of the selected studies -often deployed
   in combination with iot sensors , rfid tags , or qr codes to create end to
   end transparency . these digital interventions are reported to strengthen
   traceability and consumer trust , improve supply chain efficiency , and
   support sustainability initiatives . however , adoption remains uneven .
   most studies describe conceptual frameworks or pilot implementations rather
   than fully realized systems , and real world deployment is hampered by
   interoperability challenges , scalability issues , regulatory uncertainties
   , and high costs . in conclusion , blockchain based traceability shows great
   promise for the european food sector , but targeted efforts are needed to
   overcome it . systematic review : copyright 2025 bekkouche and de magistris
   .
DE digitalization tools; europe; food supply chain; scoping review;
   traceability

---

UT 234
AR Ghosh T, 2025, PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS, DOI
   10.1109/EMBC58623.2025.11252939
TI Improving Food Image Recognition with Noisy Vision Transformer
AU Ghosh T; Sazonov E
TC 0
SO PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS
PY 2025
AB food image recognition is a challenging task in computer vision due to the
   high variability and complexity of food images . in this study , we
   investigate the potential of noisy vision transformers ( noisyvit ) for
   improving food classification performance . by introducing noise into the
   learning process , noisyvit reduces task complexity and adjusts the entropy
   of the system , leading to enhanced model accuracy . we fine tune noisyvit
   on three benchmark datasets : food2k ( 2,000 categories , ~1m images ) ,
   food 101 ( 101 categories , ~100k images ) , and cnfood 241 ( 241 categories
   , ~190k images ) . the performance of noisyvit is evaluated against state of
   the art food recognition models . our results demonstrate that noisyvit
   achieves top 1 accuracies of 95 % , 99.5 % , and 96.6 % on food2k , food 101
   , and cnfood 241 , respectively , significantly outperforming existing
   approaches . this study underscores the potential of noisyvit for dietary
   assessment , nutritional monitoring , and healthcare applications , paving
   the way for future advancements in vision based food computing . code for
   noisyvit for food recognition is publicly available
DE clinical relevanceaccurate food image recognition enhances dietary
   monitoring; disease management; personalized healthcare
ID algorithms; food; humans; image processing computer-assisted; pattern
   recognition automated; computer vision; learning systems; medical imaging;
   nutrition; benchmark datasets; classification performance; clinical
   relevanceaccurate food image recognition enhance dietary monitoring; disease
   management; food image; learning process; modeling accuracy; personalized
   healthcare; task complexity; algorithm; automated pattern recognition; food;
   human; image processing; procedures; image enhancement

---

UT 235
AR Yu D, 2025, IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS, V34, P7290, DOI
   10.1109/TIP.2025.3627408
TI Food3D: Text-Driven Customizable 3D Food Generation With Gaussian Splatting
AU Yu D; Min W; Jin X/1; Jiang Q; Yao S; Jiang S
TC 0
SO IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2025
AB realistic 3d food creation generation plays a critical role in applications
   such as nutritional assessment , advertising , and virtual content creation
   . the existing text to 3d models typically begin by initializing a 3d
   representation , which is subsequently refined using supervision from a text
   to image model to obtain the final 3d output . in this work , we present
   food3d , a novel framework for 3d food generation designed to address two
   main limitations of current models . first , the limitation of
   initialization in 3d generation : poor initialization can result in the
   generated 3d food lacking crucial details and realism , thereby reducing its
   quality . to address this issue , we propose a generalized method named
   food3d g , which uses mamba based initialization to improve the starting
   point of the initialization process , thereby enhancing the visual fidelity
   and quality of the generated 3d food . second , the limitation of text to
   image models : current text to 3d models often rely on text to image models
   for supervision . however , a considerable gap persists between the
   generated images and real world visuals , particularly when modeling complex
   food structures . these models fail to accurately capture the fine details
   and textures , which negatively impacts the quality and realism of the
   generated 3d food models . to address this limitation , we propose a
   customizable method for personalized 3d food generation , termed food3d c .
   this method employs a dual branch diffusion model that effectively captures
   intricate details , particularly in complex food structures . within the
   food3d framework , both proposed methods incorporate 3d gaussian splatting (
   3d gs ) and a schedulable interval score matching ( s ism ) algorithm to
   enhance shape and texture generation . extensive experiments demonstrate
   that food3d achieves state of the art performance , with substantial
   improvements in detail , shape accuracy , and overall visual realism
DE 3d food generation; deep learning; diffusion model; food computing; pre-
   trained model
ID 3d modeling; textures; three dimensional computer graphics; virtual reality;
   3d food generation; 3d modeling; customizable; deep learning; diffusion
   model; food computing; gaussians; image modeling; pre-trained model;
   splatting; algorithm; article; diffusion; microcatheter; nutritional
   assessment; text-to-image model; deep learning

---

UT 236
AR Kechri K, 2025, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V24, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.70340
TI Emerging Technologies for Investigating Food Consumer Behavior: A Systematic
   Review
AU Kechri K; Kleisiari C; Kyrgiakos LS; Vasileiou M; Tosiliani DD; Angelopoulos
   V; Kleftodimos G; Vlontzos G
TC 0
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2025
AB the evolving nature of food preferences and consumption patterns highlights
   the need for ongoing research in food consumer behavior . most existing
   research relies on traditional methods , like questionnaires , which are
   often costly , time consuming , and prone to bias . the increasing
   integration of emerging technologies , including artificial intelligence (
   ai ) , virtual reality ( vr ) , social media analytics ( sma ) , and big
   data , into the food sector presents novel opportunities to overcome these
   limitations . this systematic review , conducted in accordance with the
   preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta analyses ( prisma
   ) guidelines , identified 628 records , out of which 159 eligible articles
   were included . these examine how technological innovations contribute to
   understanding food trends and consumption preferences , as well as consumer
   attitude toward these technologies . the findings reveal the considerable
   potential of big data , sma , and transactional analytics to provide large
   scale , diverse , and real time data into consumer behavior . machine
   learning ( ml ) techniques improve the analysis and interpretation of such
   complex datasets , enabling high predictive capability and a more precise
   market segmentation to provide consumers with personalized marketing content
   . immersive technologies like vr offer realistic simulations of food
   purchasing behaviors and adapt to multiple research scenarios , overcoming
   limitations of traditional research methods . however , most technology
   based studies remain primarily quantitative , limiting depth of
   understanding . challenges in automated data interpretation , reduced
   sensory immersion in vr environments , users unfamiliarity and data privacy
   concerns need also to be addressed . thus , future research should focus on
   technological advancement , improving usability and establishing ethical
   frameworks to foster consumer trust , while also integrating qualitative
   methods too beyond only relying on technology based outcomes . 2025 the
   author ( s ) . comprehensive reviews in food science and food safety
   published by wiley periodicals llc on behalf of institute of food
   technologists .
DE big data; consumer insights; digital analytics; food sector; virtual reality
ID artificial intelligence; big data; consumer behavior; food preferences;
   humans; machine learning; social media; virtual reality; artificial
   intelligence; big data; commerce; consumer behavior; data privacy; ethical
   technology; food industry; food safety; learning systems; predictive
   analytics; purchasing; social sciences computing; consumer insights; digital
   analytic; emerging technologies; food consumption; food preference; food
   sector; preference pattern; social media analytics; systematic review;
   technology-based; artificial intelligence; big data; consumer attitude; food
   preference; human; machine learning; social media; virtual reality; virtual
   reality

---

UT 237
AR Hoi CSH, 2020, PROC - IEEE INT CONF PERFORM COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INT CONF
   SMART CITY IEEE INT CONF DATA SCI SYST HPCC-SMARTCITY-DSS, P1203, DOI
   10.1109/HPCC-SmartCity-DSS50907.2020.00156
TI Prediction of Food Preparation Time for Smart City
AU Hoi CSH; Leung CK; Souza J
TC 4
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF PERFORM COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INT CONF SMART CITY IEEE INT
   CONF DATA SCI SYST HPCC-SMARTCITY-DSS
PY 2020
AB with advancements in digital technologies , very large volumes of big data
   can be generated and collected from a wide variety of rich data sources in
   various real life applications , including those from many of our daily
   routines . embedded in these big data are useful information and valuable
   knowledge . analyzing and mining these big data helps discover useful
   information and valuable knowledge , which may enhance performance and well
   being , as well as reduce costs and resource consumption ( e . g . , time )
   , of citizens . quality of food could enhance our lifestyle , and thus our
   health . while home cooking is considered healthy , occasion take out may
   save time . when ordering take out , it is challenging for the customers or
   delivery persons to predict the right time for picking up the order . in
   this paper , we present a smart city system that makes good use of big data
   mining to predict food preparation time . evaluation results show that our
   system is effective and practical in predicting food preparation time , and
   thus leading to benefits toward building a smart city
DE big data; data mining; predictive analytics; random forest; regression;
   smart city
ID big data; data communication systems; data science; forecasting; smart city;
   daily routines; digital technologies; evaluation results; food preparation;
   large volumes; real-life applications; reduce costs; resource consumption;
   data mining

---

UT 238
AR Wu X, 2021, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P506, DOI
   10.1145/3474085.3475201
TI A Large-Scale Benchmark for Food Image Segmentation
AU Wu X; Fu X; Liu Y/5; Lim E-P; Hoi SCH/1; Sun Q/3
TC 90
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2021
AB food image segmentation is a critical and indispensible task for developing
   health related applications such as estimating food calories and nutrients .
   existing food image segmentation models are underperforming due to two
   reasons : ( 1 ) there is a lack of high quality food image datasets with
   fine grained ingredient labels and pixel wise location masks--the existing
   datasets either carry coarse ingredient labels or are small in size . and (
   2 ) the complex appearance of food makes it difficult to localize and
   recognize ingredients in food images , e . g . , the ingredients may overlap
   one another in the same image , and the identical ingredient may appear
   distinctly in different food images . in this work , we build a new food
   image dataset foodseg103 ( and its extension foodseg154 ) containing 9,490
   images . we annotate these images with 154 ingredient classes and each image
   has an average of 6 ingredient labels and pixel wise masks . in addition ,
   we propose a multi modality pre training approach called relem that
   explicitly equips a segmentation model with rich and semantic food knowledge
   . in experiments , we use three popular semantic segmentation methods ( i .
   e . , dilated convolution based [ 20 ] , feature pyramid based [ 25 ] , and
   vision transformer based [ 60 ] ) as baselines , and evaluate them as well
   as relem on our new datasets . we believe that the foodseg103 ( and its
   extension foodseg154 ) and the pre trained models using relem can serve as a
   benchmark to facilitate future works on fine grained food image
   understanding . we make all these datasets and methods public at 2021 acm .
DE datasets; deep learning; food computing; semantic segmentation
ID deep learning; large dataset; pixels; semantics; dataset; deep learning;
   fine grained; food computing; food image; image datasets; image segmentation
   model; images segmentations; large-scales; semantic segmentation; semantic
   segmentation

---

UT 239
AR Xiao K, 2026, STUD SYST DECIS CONTROL, V634, P313, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-05701-3_14
TI Enhancing Calorie Estimation and Multi-label Fruit Image Synthesis Through
   Conditional Wasserstein GANs with Gradient Penalty
AU Xiao K; Aboul-Yazeed RS; Darwish A; Hassanien AE
TC 0
SO STUD SYST DECIS CONTROL
PY 2026
AB generating new realistic images from images of multiple fruits is crucial
   for multiple applications such as calorie estimation , and menu design due
   to the fact that the availability of big food datasets that gather diverse
   fruits genre is a challenge . wasserstein generative adversarial networks
   are robust generative models that to some limit enhanced the training
   instability of generative adversarial networks . in this paper , to create
   photorealistic , multi label fruit images , gradient penalty is utilized for
   the enhancement of the conditional wasserstein generative adversarial
   networks ( cwgans gp ) . using the deepfruits dataset which contains over
   21,000 images featuring three to five kinds of fruits from 20 diverse types
   arranged into eight different fruit set combinations . frechet inception
   distance ( fid ) and inception score ( is ) are the utilized evaluation
   metrics , together with expert assessments . the capability of cwgan gp is
   demonstrated to produce high fidelity , semantically coherent images that
   reflect specified fruit categories . the latest progress in generative
   modeling has highlighted the significance of producing controllable images
   with high quality . the proposed cwgan gp model is consistent with these
   ongoing advancements . by providing a specialized solution for multi label
   fruit image generation , this work advances the field of food computing and
   contributes to the evolving landscape of data driven dietary assessment and
   personalized nutrition technology
DE calorie estimation; conditional wasserstein gans ( cwgan-gp ); generative
   adversarial networks ( gans ); multi-label image synthesis; synthetic image
   generation

---

UT 240
AR Fathy H, 2026, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V1236, P195, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-05603-0_9
TI Beyond the Field: AI and IoT in Food Distribution
AU Fathy H; Sabour AO; Abdellatif YS
TC 0
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence is algorithm development for machines that can
   process and analyze vast volumes of data , recognize relationships ,
   recognize patterns , and based on that analysis call decisions or
   predictions based on computer models . several industries and sectors have
   seen an increase in the use of artificial intelligence : agriculture finance
   , manufacturing , transportation , education , retail , and healthcare are
   just limited artificial intelligence technology developments that are
   anticipated to have a big influence in the future on jobs for example , the
   agri food industry is increasingly using artificial intelligent to provide
   more sustainable , efficient and effective products . with concrete examples
   , it could radically transform the agri food industry in terms of food
   safety , crop tracking , precision agriculture , supply chain optimization ,
   predictive analytics , food processing , nutrition quality , and nutrition
   management . this book chapter reveals that recent advances in artificial
   inelegant have increased productivity , enhanced food safety , decreased
   waste , enhanced quality , and adapted to the food industry which led to
   summarizing the limitations , and potential applications of ai in the food
   sectors
DE artificial intelligent; dairy; food; internet of things; sustainable
   management

---

UT 241
AR Misra NN, 2022, IEEE INTERNET THINGS J, V9, P6305, DOI
   10.1109/JIOT.2020.2998584
TI IoT, Big Data, and Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture and Food Industry
AU Misra NN; Dixit Y; Al-Mallahi A; Bhullar MS; Upadhyay R; Martynenko A
TC 775
SO IEEE INTERNET THINGS J
PY 2022
AB internet of things ( iot ) results in a massive amount of streaming data ,
   often referred to as big data , which brings new opportunities to monitor
   agricultural and food processes . besides sensors , big data from social
   media is also becoming important for the food industry . in this review , we
   present an overview of iot , big data , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) ,
   and their disruptive role in shaping the future of agri food systems .
   following an introduction to the fields of iot , big data , and ai , we
   discuss the role of iot and big data analysis in agriculture ( including
   greenhouse monitoring , intelligent farm machines , and drone based crop
   imaging ) , supply chain modernization , social media ( for open innovation
   and sentiment analysis ) in food industry , food quality assessment ( using
   spectral methods and sensor fusion ) , and finally , food safety ( using
   gene sequencing and blockchain based digital traceability ) . a special
   emphasis is laid on the commercial status of applications and translational
   research outcomes
DE blockchain; digital; gene sequencing; internet; precision agriculture ( pa
   ); robotics; sensors; social media
ID accident prevention; big data; blockchain; genes; internet of things;
   precision agriculture; sentiment analysis; social networking ( online );
   supply chains; wireless sensor networks; agri-food system; agriculture
   industries; blockchain; digital; food industries; gene sequencing; precision
   agriculture; social media; streaming data; quality control

---

UT 242
AR Zaldi MAA, 2024, PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL INNOV APPL ICTIIA, DOI
   10.1109/ICTIIA61827.2024.10761920
TI Twitter Data Extraction for Food and Beverage Business Analytics
AU Zaldi MAA; Sitompul OS; Nababan EB; Crispin A
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL INNOV APPL ICTIIA
PY 2024
AB an essential objective of this project is the collection and analysis of
   twitter data having a particular emphasis on improving the food and beverage
   industry , particularly in the context of the indonesian language . this
   study collects three distinct datasets , namely location data , tweet data ,
   and profile data by utilizing the twitter api and pentaho data integration (
   pdi ) . the research provides meaningful insights into consumer preferences
   and trends in indonesia s digital ecosystem by analyzing tweet patterns ,
   hashtag trends , and food and beverage related keywords using an interactive
   dashboard developed using streamlit and duckdb . the findings underscore the
   value of social media data for enterprises in making well informed
   evaluations , creating focused marketing strategies , and enhancing product
   development . furthermore , the research suggests potential areas for future
   exploration , like enhancing the process of selecting keywords , using
   analysis powered by artificial intelligence , and closely examining highly
   active accounts to optimize online effectiveness . through the
   implementation of these identified patterns , food and beverage companies
   can improve their online presence and engage with customers more effectively
DE data collection; digital media analysis; entrepreneurial planning; twitter;
   user patterns
ID business analytics; data collection; data extraction; digital medium
   analyze; entrepreneurial planning; food and beverage industry; indonesian
   languages; location data; media analysis; user pattern; tweets

---

UT 243
AR Lamers-Johnson E, 2022, J ACAD NUTR DIET, V122, P862, DOI
   10.1016/j.jand.2021.03.013
TI Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Nutrition Research Network: Validation of
   a Novel Nutrition Informatics Tool to Assess Agreement Between Documented
   Nutrition Care and Evidence-Based Recommendations
AU Lamers-Johnson E; Kelley K; Sánchez DM; Knippen KL; Nadelson M; Papoutsakis
   C; Yakes Jimenez E
TC 9
SO J ACAD NUTR DIET
PY 2022
AB more evidence regarding registered dietitian nutritionist implementation of
   evidence based nutrition practice guidelines ( ebnpgs ) is needed . we
   assessed the utility of an automated informatics tool to evaluate congruence
   of documented nutrition care with 13 individual recommendations in the
   diabetes mellitus ( dm ) ebnpg and with the guideline overall . a concurrent
   validation study was conducted using nutrition care process terminology
   documentation entered in the academy of nutrition and dietetics health
   informatics infrastructure by registered dietitian nutritionists caring for
   patients with dm . a 15 % subset ( n = 115 ) of the 790 patient encounters
   recorded were selected randomly , and the documented care was evaluated
   using the automated dm expected care plan ( ecp ) analyzer and expert audit
   . recommendation level congruence , as determined by each method , was
   compared using cohen s analysis , and the accuracy , sensitivity , and
   specificity of the dm ecp analyzer for assessing overall guideline level
   congruence was calculated with expert audits as the ' gold standard . ' for
   recommendation level congruence , the dm ecp analyzer identified more
   instances of recommendation implementation in the patient encounters , and
   classified more encounters as including partial or full recommendation
   implementation for 10 of the 13 recommendations , compared with the expert
   audit . there was slight to fair agreement between the dm ecp and the expert
   audit for most individual recommendations , with a mean standard deviation
   level of agreement of = .17 .19 across all eligible recommendations . at the
   guideline level , the dm analyzer had high accuracy ( 98.3 % ) and
   sensitivity ( 99.1 % ) and low specificity ( 0 % . no true negatives
   detected ) . the dm ecp analyzer is acceptable for conducting automated
   audits of nutrition documentation to assess congruence of documented care
   with recommendations for evidence based care . future changes to the ebnpg ,
   nutrition care process terminology , academy of nutrition and dietetics
   health informatics infrastructure , and the dm ecp analyzer could
   potentially improve recommendation level performance . the dm ecp analyzer
   can be modified for other ebnpgs to facilitate automated assessment of
   guideline implementation . 2022 academy of nutrition and dietetics
ID academies and institutes; diabetes mellitus; dietetics; humans; medical
   informatics; nutrition therapy; nutritionists; diabetes mellitus; diet
   therapy; dietetics; dietitian; human; medical informatics; organization;
   procedures

---

UT 244
AR [Anonymous], 2024, J AGRIC FOOD RES, V18, DOI 10.1016/j.jafr.2024.101350
TI ML-based technologies in sustainable agro-food production and beyond:
   Tapping the (semi) arid landscape for bioactives-based product development
TC 13
SO J AGRIC FOOD RES
PY 2024
AB the current era of rapid climate change necessitates greater emphasis on
   wild , often underutilized yet sturdy , edible plants that are capable of
   growing in harsh arid lands . when compared to more popular crops like rice
   , these are often of traditional significance and more region specific . but
   needing less chemical fertilizers , pesticides and irrigation water , they
   can not only provide food and nutrition in a sustainable manner but also
   medicinally valuable compounds ( nutraceuticals ) to target various
   communicable and non communicable diseases . these bioactive metabolites
   could also serve as markers for in process quality control of herbal
   formulations and as metabolic biomarkers . of late , a few of the common
   food crops across the world have benefited from the use of technological
   interventions , employing various internet of things ( iot ) devices and
   sensors to collect data on the farm and conduct agro food specific analytics
   . machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) have found application in
   numerous facets of agriculture , particularly in tasks such as yield
   prediction , disease detection , weed detection , crop recognition , and
   assessing crop quality at pre harvest , harvest , and post harvest stages .
   ml technology also has shown potential to be effectively employed at various
   stages of bioactives discovery , encompassing target identification ,
   compound screening , lead discovery , as well as pre clinical and clinical
   development phases . however , the usage of these modern technologies has
   been less explored in the desert plants of the world . the current article
   reviews a few available examples and highlights the potential of employing
   ml and dl technologies in edible plants of the world , with a focus on
   sustainable desert flora , for achievement of multidisciplinary objectives ,
   that is , agro food production , food safety and bioactives discovery
DE bioactive natural products; desert plants; food security; machine learning (
   ml ); sustainable agriculture

---

UT 245
AR Abbaspour-Gilandeh Y, 2020, AGRON, V10, DOI 10.3390/agronomy10010119
TI A combined method of image processing and artificial neural network for the
   identification of 13 Iranian rice cultivars
AU Abbaspour-Gilandeh Y; Molaee A; Sabzi S; Nabipur N; Shamshirband S; Mosavi A
TC 43
SO AGRON
PY 2020
AB due to the importance of identifying crop cultivars , the advancement of
   accurate assessment of cultivars is considered essential . the existing
   methods for identifying rice cultivars are mainly time consuming , costly ,
   and destructive . therefore , the development of novel methods is highly
   beneficial . the aim of the present research is to classify common rice
   cultivars in iran based on color , morphologic , and texture properties
   using artificial intelligence ( ai ) methods . in doing so , digital images
   of 13 rice cultivars in iran in three forms of paddy , brown , and white are
   analyzed through pre processing and segmentation of using matlab . ninety
   two specificities , including 60 color , 14 morphologic , and 18 texture
   properties , were identified for each rice cultivar . in the next step , the
   normal distribution of data was evaluated , and the possibility of observing
   a significant difference between all specificities of cultivars was studied
   using variance analysis . in addition , the least significant difference (
   lsd ) test was performed to obtain a more accurate comparison between
   cultivars . to reduce data dimensions and focus on the most effective
   components , principal component analysis ( pca ) was employed . accordingly
   , the accuracy of rice cultivar separations was calculated for paddy , brown
   rice , and white rice using discriminant analysis ( da ) , which was 89.2 %
   , 87.7 % , and 83.1 % , respectively . to identify and classify the desired
   cultivars , a multilayered perceptron neural network was implemented based
   on the most effective components . the results showed 100 % accuracy of the
   network in identifying and classifying all mentioned rice cultivars . hence
   , it is concluded that the integrated method of image processing and pattern
   recognition methods , such as statistical classification and artificial
   neural networks , can be used for identifying and classification of rice
   cultivars . 2020 by the authors
DE artificial intelligence; artificial neural networks; big data; crop;
   cultivar; food informatics; image processing; machine learning; rice

---

UT 246
AR Adrian WT, 2024, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V693, P38, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-61069-1_4
TI Supporting Food Computing with Ontologies and Artificial Intelligence
   Methods for Sustainability
AU Adrian WT; Ignacyk J; Pyrczak K; Kluza K; Wiśniewski P; Ligęza A
TC 0
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB this paper investigates the potential of combining food ontologies and ai in
   the food sector for enhanced sustainability . we argue that this combination
   can foster sustainable food systems , underscoring how semantic structures
   and ai can facilitate precision agriculture , sustainable food choices ,
   personalized diets , and climate change mitigation . our goal is to discuss
   how these innovative technologies can be harnessed to better understand ,
   manage , and ultimately transform the food domain for a sustainable future .
   as a first step toward achieving this goal , we provide an overview of
   prominent food ontologies and knowledge graphs in the food domain
   highlighting their structures and focal points , and we illustrate the value
   of ontological reasoning through practical food domain examples , using
   sparql queries and ontological reasoning for insightful knowledge derivation
   . we also discuss how to combine ai and ontologies to create new knowledge
   resources for improved data integration and management
DE food ontologies; knowledge graphs; ontological reasoning in food systems;
   sustainability in food systems
ID climate change; data integration; information management; knowledge graph;
   nutrition; ontology; semantics; artificial intelligence methods; food
   computing; food ontology; food system; knowledge graphs; ontological
   reasoning; ontological reasoning in food system; ontologys; sustainability
   in food system; sustainable development

---

UT 247
AR Hou L, 2021, INT CONF DIGIT SOC INTELL SYST DSINS, P279, DOI
   10.1109/DSInS54396.2021.9670592
TI Research on Big Data Analysis System of Green Food Traceability Based on
   Smart Radio and Television
AU Hou L; Li Y/10; Li S/6; Wang Y/13
TC 0
SO INT CONF DIGIT SOC INTELL SYST DSINS
PY 2021
AB by discussing farmers behavior characteristics , behavior intention , key
   factors and formation motivation of traceability control , this study builds
   a green food traceability big data analysis system which farmers are willing
   to participate in and easy to operate , and realizes the quality control of
   green food source . based on the smart radio and television all over urban
   and rural areas , green food traceability applies big data analysis
   technology to the whole process of agricultural products from production to
   consumption , providing a convenient way to create green food brand by
   digital means and promoting the application of big data analysis technology
   in agriculture
DE big data analysis; green food; traceability
ID agricultural products; big data; data handling; digital radio; quality
   control; behavior characteristic; behavior intentions; big data analyze;
   data analysis system; food sources; food traceabilitys; green foods; key
   factors; traceability; urban and rural areas; information analysis

---

UT 248
AR Siripurapu ID, 2026, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V15, DOI
   10.3390/electronics15071460
TI iLog 2.2: Volume and Nutrition Estimation for Mixed Foods via Mask R-CNN and
   Federated Learning
AU Siripurapu ID; Rachakonda L; Mohanty SP/1; Kougianos E
TC 0
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2026
AB accurately estimating calorie intake and nutrient composition from what we
   eat remains one of the most practical challenges in maintaining a healthy
   lifestyle . manual food logging and database based estimations are often
   inaccurate because ingredient proportions and preparation styles vary widely
   . this paper presents a lightweight , privacy preserving framework that
   estimates calories and detailed nutrient values from a single image . the
   model uses a mask r cnn based segmentation network to identify visible food
   components , measure their area , estimate their volume using preset height
   values , and map them to nutritional information obtained from reliable
   datasets such as usda and food a pedia . the system integrates federated
   learning ( fl ) to ensure privacy by allowing the model to improve
   collaboratively without sharing raw user data . the proposed architecture
   achieved a mean average precision ( map ) of 96 % for detection and 92 % for
   segmentation , confirming its precision and efficiency . the model is
   trained and evaluated on a curated pizza dataset consisting of 1107 images
   across 50 topping categories , using a standard train validation test split
   ( 666/219/222 ) to ensure reliable performance assessment . the proposed
   system also achieves low nutrition estimation error , with calorie and
   nutrient deviations remaining within approximately 3.8 % to 11.1 % across
   evaluated metrics . a lightweight mobile interface is demonstrated through a
   figma based prototype mockup to illustrate potential real world deployment
   and user interaction
DE computer vision; edge ai; federated learning; food computing; nutrition
   estimation; privacy
ID artificial intelligence; computer privacy; data privacy; human computer
   interaction; image segmentation; learning systems; nutrients; nutrition;
   statistical tests; user interfaces; edge ai; food computing; healthy
   lifestyles; model use; nutrient composition; nutrient values; nutrition
   estimation; privacy; privacy-preserving; single images; computer vision

---

UT 249
AR Razali MN, 2021, INF, V12, DOI 10.3390/info12080322
TI Indigenous food recognition model based on various convolutional neural
   network architectures for gastronomic tourism business analytics
AU Razali MN; Moung EG; Yahya F; Hou CJ; Hanapi R; Mohamed R; Hashem IAT
TC 27
SO INF
PY 2021
AB in gastronomic tourism , food is viewed as the central tourist attraction .
   specifically , indigenous food is known to represent the expression of local
   culture and identity . to promote gastronomic tourism , it is critical to
   have a model for the food business analytics system . this research
   undertakes an empirical evaluation of recent transfer learning models for
   deep learning feature extraction for a food recognition model . the vireo
   food172 dataset and a newly established sabah food dataset are used to
   evaluate the food recognition model . afterwards , the model is imple mented
   into a web application system as an attempt to automate food recognition .
   in this model , a fully connected layer with 11 and 10 softmax neurons is
   used as the classifier for food categories in both datasets . six pre
   trained convolutional neural network ( cnn ) models are evaluated as the
   feature extractors to extract essential features from food images . from the
   evaluation , the research found that the efficientnet feature extractor
   based and cnn classifier achieved the highest classification accuracy of
   94.01 % on the sabah food dataset and 86.57 % on vireo food172 dataset .
   effnet as a feature representation outperformed xception in terms of overall
   performance . how ever , xception can be considered despite some accuracy
   performance drawback if computational speed and memory space usage are more
   important than performance
DE cnn; deep learning; food features; food recognition; food sentiment;
   gastronomic tourism; transfer learning
ID advanced analytics; classification ( of information ); convolution; deep
   learning; leisure industry; network architecture; silicon compounds;
   tourism; transfer learning; business analytics; classification accuracy;
   computational speed; empirical evaluations; feature representation;
   performance drawback; tourist attractions; web application systems;
   convolutional neural networks

---

UT 250
AR Hirve SA, 2022, RES ANTHOL BIG DATA ANAL ARCHIT APPL, V2, P520, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-3662-2.ch025
TI Big Data Analytics and Visualization for Food Health Status Determination
   Using Bigmart Data
AU Hirve SA; Pradeep RCH
TC 0
SO RES ANTHOL BIG DATA ANAL ARCHIT APPL
PY 2022
AB being premature , the traditional data visualization techniques suffer from
   several challenges and lack the ability to handle a huge amount of data ,
   particularly in gigabytes and terabytes . in this research , we propose an r
   tool and data analytics framework for handling a huge amount of commercial
   market stored data and discover knowledge patterns from the dataset for
   conveying the derived conclusion . in this chapter , we elaborate on pre
   processing a commercial market dataset using the r tool and its packages for
   information and visual analytics . we suggest a recommendation system based
   on the data which identifies if the food entry inserted into the database is
   hygienic or non hygienic based on the quality preserved attributes . for a
   precise recommendation system with strong predictive accuracy , we will put
   emphasis on algorithms such as j48 or naive bayes and utilize the one who
   outclasses the comparison based on accuracy . such a system , when combined
   with r language , can be potentially used for enhanced decision making

---

UT 251
AR Hemanth D, 2025, AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND, P1, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-9884-5.ch001
TI Benefits of AI in the Food Industry
AU Hemanth D
TC 0
SO AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence is increasingly becoming a transformative force in
   the food industry , reshaping how food is produced , processed , and
   delivered . the current research on the impact of artificial intelligence on
   improving operational effectiveness in the food industry . firstly , it
   emphasizes how ai technologies enhance production processes and optimize
   supply chain management while prioritizing food safety . by employing
   predictive analytics and automation , ai contributes to minimizing waste ,
   maximizing resource use , and upholding high quality standards throughout
   the production cycle . secondly , the study investigates how ai boosts
   customer interaction by offering personalized experiences and streamlined
   service delivery . by evaluating consumer preferences and behaviors , ai
   allows food enterprises to customize their offerings , ultimately resulting
   in heightened customer satisfaction and loyalty . through this investigation
   , the research seeks to provide practical insights and best practices for
   food sector stakeholders aiming to exploit ai for better operational results
ID accident prevention; artificial intelligence; consumer behavior; customer
   satisfaction; food industry; food safety; current; ai technologies; chain
   management; food industries; food safety; high quality standards;
   operational effectiveness; production cycle; production process; resource
   use; predictive analytics

---

UT 252
AR Liu Y/9, 2024, IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS, V33, P2572, DOI
   10.1109/TIP.2024.3374211
TI Convolution-Enhanced Bi-Branch Adaptive Transformer With Cross-Task
   Interaction for Food Category and Ingredient Recognition
AU Liu Y/9; Min W; Jiang S; Rui Y
TC 38
SO IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2024
AB recently , visual food analysis has received more and more attention in the
   computer vision community due to its wide application scenarios , e . g . ,
   diet nutrition management , smart restaurant , and personalized diet
   recommendation . considering that food images are unstructured images with
   complex and unfixed visual patterns , mining food related semantic aware
   regions is crucial . furthermore , the ingredients contained in food images
   are semantically related to each other due to the cooking habits and have
   significant semantic relationships with food categories under the
   hierarchical food classification ontology . therefore , modeling the long
   range semantic relationships between ingredients and the categories
   ingredients semantic interactions is beneficial for ingredient recognition
   and food analysis . taking these factors into consideration , we propose a
   multi task learning framework for food category and ingredient recognition .
   this framework mainly consists of a food orient transformer named
   convolution enhanced bi branch adaptive transformer ( cbiaformer ) and a
   multi task category ingredient recognition network called structural
   learning and cross task interaction ( slci ) . in order to capture the
   complex and unfixed fine grained patterns of food images , we propose a
   query aware data adaptive attention mechanism called bi branch adaptive
   attention ( bia attention ) in cbiaformer , which consists of a local fine
   grained branch and a global coarse grained branch to mine local and global
   semantic aware regions for different input images through an adaptive
   candidate key / value sets assignment for each query . additionally , a
   convolutional patch embedding module is proposed to extract the fine grained
   features which are neglected by transformers . to fully utilize the
   ingredient information , we propose slci , which consists of cross layer
   attention to model the semantic relationships between ingredients and two
   cross task interaction modules to mine the semantic interactions between
   categories and ingredients . extensive experiments show that our method
   achieves competitive performance on three mainstream food datasets ( eth
   food 101 , vireo food 172 , and isia food 200 ) . visualization analyzes of
   cbiaformer and slci on two tasks prove the effectiveness of our method .
   codes will be released upon publication . code and models are available at
   1992-2012 ieee .
DE fine grained recognition; food computing; food recognition; ingredient
   recognition; multi-label recognition
ID cooking; learning; complex networks; convolution; image recognition; job
   analysis; learning systems; nutrition; visualization; features extraction;
   fine grained; food analysis; food image; semantic interactions; semantic
   relationships; semantic-aware; structural learning; task analysis;
   transformer; cooking; learning; semantics

---

UT 253
AR Hossain A, 2026, DATA BR, V66, DOI 10.1016/j.dib.2026.112683
TI Dry Fish Image dataset: Data-driven analysis and deep learning-based
   classification
AU Hossain A; Hossain MJ; Arin IA; Mia MJ; Hasan A; Rupoma TT; Ali MNY
TC 0
SO DATA BR
PY 2026
AB this article presents a dry fish image dataset framework to support data
   driven research in computer vision , machine learning and deep learning .
   this dataset collected from a multiple market of dry fish in dhaka , which
   shows that how different they look , how they are handled , and how they are
   presented in real world . images were acquired using consumer grade mobile
   cameras under natural lighting conditions to reflect practical deployment
   scenarios . the collection process purposefully incorporated variations in
   lighting , background clutter , camera angles , distances , and obstructions
   to augment data diversity . we got permission to take all the pictures and
   put them in a consistent naming and folder structure . the dataset has high
   quality rgb images of twelve different types of dry fish , such as bashpata
   , chanda , chapila , chewa , churi , loitta , shukna feuwa , shundori ,
   chingri , kachki , narkeli , and puti chepa . each class includes dry fish
   species that are commonly traded and shows natural differences in size ,
   texture , color , and drying patterns within the class . we looked at in the
   data and put them in groups by hand to make sure they were all in the same
   class by taking help of expert . we did some simple preprocessing , such as
   getting rid of duplicates and making sure that the formats were the same ,
   all while keeping the data s original visual features . you can use this dry
   fish dataset again for things like classifying images , extracting features
   , analyzing data imbalance , benchmarking data augmentation , and
   visualizing explainable artificial intelligence . it could also help with
   research on how to recognize food with few resources , automate markets ,
   digitize supply chains , and use mobile devices for inspections . the way
   the dataset is set up makes it easy to work with well known deep learning
   frameworks . it can also be added to with more classes or metadata , making
   it useful for both academic research and practical development in smart food
   systems and fisheries informatics
DE computer vision; deep learning; food recognition; image classification;
   machine learning applications; visual inspection
ID benchmarking; cameras; classification ( of information ); commerce; data
   mining; fish; fisheries; image analysis; learning systems; lighting; market
   research; dry [; data-driven; data-driven analysis; deep learning; fish
   images; food recognition; image datasets; images classification; machine
   learning applications; visual inspection; computer vision; deep learning;
   image classification

---

UT 254
AR Maiyar LM, 2023, INNOV ANAL TOOLS COMPET ADVANT, P171, DOI
   10.1142/9781786349989_0008
TI Fighting Food Waste: How Can Artificial Intelligence and Analytics Help?
AU Maiyar LM; Ramanathan R; Swamy SLBN; Ramanathan U
TC 3
SO INNOV ANAL TOOLS COMPET ADVANT
PY 2023
AB the application domains of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and analytics are
   ever increasing , specifically in food production globally . the
   availability of huge amounts of data , machine to machine communications ,
   cloud storage , blockchain and the emergence of newer methods of data
   analytics have helped to kindle renewed interest in ai developments for the
   european food sector . some experiences from a large european project ,
   called the reamit project , will be used in this chapter to discover the
   possibilities of using ai to identify causes , patterns , and solutions to
   the food wastage crisis . approximately one third of food produced gets
   wasted in both developed and developing nations . the reamit project uses
   internet of things ( iot ) sensors to sense food quality . this chapter will
   uncover some promising potentials of using ai techniques with sensor data .
   the various criteria that influence the selection of the right ai tool under
   various scenarios of the iot system implementation are captured through a
   hierarchical multi criteria framework . this chapter also proposes an
   innovative analytics framework for food waste reduction which can be adapted
   widely by individuals and practitioners . 2023 by the editors .

---

UT 255
AR Zhou K, 2021, J PHYS CONF SER, V2137, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/2137/1/012054
TI Fusing image feature and title semantic regularization with adversarial
   networks for cross-modal retrieval
AU Zhou K
TC 0
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2021
AB with the improvement of living standard , people pay more and more attention
   to their health . food is the foundation of human life , modern society
   places more emphasis on a balanced diet , which controls fat , protein ,
   carbohydrate and vitamin intake . so food computing is more and more
   important . food retrieval is one of the important research directions in
   food computing . on the basis of food retrieval , we can predict ingredients
   and instructions in each dish , according to the ingredients and
   instructions to speculate on the visual effect of cooking , which can guide
   human reasonable diet , analyze human diet structure and diet culture and so
   on . in this paper , we focus on cross modal retrieval between food image
   and recipe . firstly , we analyze the problems existing in the present
   method . based on the problems existing in the existing method , a fusion
   image feature and title regularization with adversarial network is proposed
   , which uses the idea of generative adversarial to align the modes , fuses
   the local features and global features of the image , and adds the semantic
   regularity of title to improve the accuracy of the retrieval . 2021
   institute of physics publishing
ID cooking; image enhancement; semantic web; adversarial networks; balanced
   diet; cross-modal; food computing; human diet; human lives; image features;
   living standards; regularization; visual effects; semantics

---

UT 256
AR Zambon A, 2022, EFSA J, V20, DOI 10.2903/j.efsa.2022.e200903
TI Training in tools to develop quantitative microbial risk assessment along
   the food chain of Spanish products
AU Zambon A; Perez AG; Spilimbergo S; Fernández Escámez PS
TC 1
SO EFSA J
PY 2022
AB food safety is a widespread challenge . every year it is estimated that
   almost 1 in 10 people in the world fall ill after eating contaminated food
   resulting in over 400,000 deaths . the risk of outbreaks is higher when
   consuming ready to eat ( rte ) products because they are eaten without a
   further cooking process that could inactivate pathogenic microorganisms .
   hence , food processing is essential to increase the safety of rte products
   . microbiological risk assessment ( mra ) integrates food science ,
   microbiology and data science to provide a comprehensive understanding of
   the safety of the food system . mra provides qualitative and / or
   quantitative information to decision makers , which might promote the
   adoption of better food practices . in this contest , this project aims to
   study and implement tools for quantitative microbial risk assessment ( qmra
   ) of food products along the food chain . a common rte product ( cured ham )
   from spain was used as a case study . following , the exposure assessment
   model was implemented using mathematical models and statistical software to
   describe the microbial behavior along the food chain . the study presents
   the possibility to identify the risk exposure in different scenarios ( e . g
   . growth during different storage conditions , inactivation induced by
   traditional or innovative decontamination techniques ) , showing the
   flexibility of the predictive tools developed . 2022 wiley vch verlag gmbh
   and co . kgaa on behalf of the european food safety authority .
DE listeria monocytogenes; low temperature pasteurization; qmra; ready-to-eat;
   supercritical co2

---

UT 257
AR Singh RK, 2026, MEAS BUS EXCELL, P1, DOI 10.1108/MBE-02-2025-0021
TI Measuring supply chain responsiveness: the influence of big data
   capabilities, strategic procurement and product innovation
AU Singh RK
TC 0
SO MEAS BUS EXCELL
PY 2026
AB purpose the purpose of this study is to tackle the pressing challenge and
   provoke thoughts regarding improving supply chain responsiveness ( scr ) in
   indian food industry using big data capabilities ( bdcs ) with procurement
   and production innovation . specifically , the study seeks to empirically
   examine how bdc affects scr through strategic procurement and production
   innovation capabilities . design / methodology / approach the authors used
   confirmatory factor analysis and structural equation modeling for validation
   of the proposed theoretical constructs , as well as their hypothesized
   relationships . in this study , an online survey instrument was administered
   to the professionals from the indian food industry and data were analyzed
   for reliability , validity and statistical significance of path coefficients
   . findings bdc is found to improve scr by enabling data based strategy and
   in procurement practices , as well as in production innovation . bdc is
   found to be positively and statistically significantly associated with
   strategic procurement and production innovation capabilities in the indian
   food industry , indicating that bdc critically enables supply chain agility
   and responsiveness . originality / value this study provides a framework to
   establish synergistic effects of bdc together with strategic procurement and
   production innovation on scr within specific indian food industrial context
   . this study fills the gap in previous research by offering industry
   specific perspectives on how organizations can use big data to enhance
   supply chain responsiveness
DE big data capability; indian food industry; production innovation; strategic
   procurement; supply chain responsiveness

---

UT 258
AR Shyan H, 2024, IEEE INT CONF GREEN IND ELECTRON SUSTAIN TECHNOL GIEST, DOI
   10.1109/GIEST62955.2024.10959949
TI Analyzing Customer Preferences in the Food Delivery Industry Using Big Data
AU Shyan H; Verma B; Agarwal M/1
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF GREEN IND ELECTRON SUSTAIN TECHNOL GIEST
PY 2024
AB this research explores the food delivery industry s digital transformation
   and its potential through big data analytics . the attributes under scrutiny
   include restaurant identification , geographical metadata , city based
   information , restaurant nomenclature , pricing data , customer ratings ,
   total review counts , cuisine categorizations , physical location data , and
   delivery duration statistics . the research outcomes bear substantial
   relevance to data driven decision making for restaurateurs , digital food
   delivery platforms , and policymakers , providing actionable insights for
   operational enhancements and informed strategies . additionally , these
   findings elucidate dynamic industry trends , offering a foundational
   framework for further computational research in this rapidly evolving domain
   thorough investigation of consumer preferences and the elements that go into
   a satisfying dining experience is made possible by the addition of customer
   ratings , the total number of reviews , and cuisine classifications . the
   research expands its focus to consider the time related aspects by exploring
   how industry patterns change over time . the outcomes of this study are
   highly relevant for making informed , data driven decisions in the food
   delivery industry . these insights can guide policymakers , digital food
   delivery companies , and restaurant owners in crafting effective strategies
   and enhancing their operations
DE big data analytics; computational data analysis); customer preferences; food
   delivery industry; restaurant performance metrics
ID advanced analytics; agri-food; breweries; decision making; labeled data;
   sales; taxonomies; ); big data analytic; computational data; computational
   data analyze; customer preferences; data analytics; food delivery; food
   delivery industry; performance metrices; restaurant performance metric; food
   industry

---

UT 259
AR Ortiz-Viso B, 2025, DATA-DRIVEN INSIGHTS ANAL MEAS SUSTAIN DEV GOALS, P19,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-33044-5.00008-5
TI Food recommendations for reducing your impact
AU Ortiz-Viso B; Morales-Garzón A; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 0
SO DATA-DRIVEN INSIGHTS ANAL MEAS SUSTAIN DEV GOALS
PY 2025
AB since the paris agreement of 2014 , the current strategy to mitigate the
   effects of climate change has been based on three basic pillars : mitigating
   the effects of this change , strengthening the population s resilience to
   them , and finally , helping with society s adaptation to the new
   circumstances created by this change . nutrition plays a fundamental role
   since the food we consume is responsible for a portion of our environmental
   impact , and the effects of climate change on crops are predicted to change
   our eating patterns significantly . at the same time , proper nutrition is
   essential for our correct development and health , especially given the
   current levels of health problems resulting from inadequate diets . however
   , for modern society , following a healthy and sustainable diet presents a
   considerable challenge . this goal often involves taking into account
   multiple sources of information that are difficult for the nonexpert user to
   understand . in this chapter , we propose ffruit ( food recommendations for
   reducing your impact ) , a novel recommendation system that helps users with
   their diet and makes more informed nutritional decisions , considering their
   health and focusing on reducing their environmental impact from a baseline
   recommendation
DE artificial intelligence; climate change; food computing; nutrition;
   recommendation systems; sustainable development
ID environmental impact; food ingredients; nutrition; current; current levels;
   food computing; multiple source; sources of informations; artificial
   intelligence; recommender systems; sustainable development

---

UT 260
AR Roland N, 2026, CAH NUTR DIET, DOI 10.1016/j.cnd.2026.03.002
TI Benefits of fermented foods, from empiricism to scientific evidence: The
   contribution of Ferments du Futur
AU Roland N; Spatz M; Le-Loir Y; Steyer J-P; Schbath S; Beney L; Jeantet R;
   Lindley N; Champomier-Vergès M-C; Paineau D
TC 0
SO CAH NUTR DIET
PY 2026
AB summaryfermentation has held a central place in human nutrition for
   millennia , both for the preservation of perishable goods and for their
   transformation . fermented foods indeed have unique sensory properties , in
   addition to health benefits that are increasingly well documented .
   furthermore , fermentation contributes to the sustainability of our food
   systems . as we move toward more natural , plant based and sustainable diets
   , fermentation represents a key technology for transforming agri food
   systems . the ferments du futur ( fdf ) initiative , led by inrae and ania
   with the support of france 2030 , aims to develop new ferments , to
   fermentation processes and to create high added value fermented foods ,
   drawing on biotechnologies , data science and public private collaborations
   . this article outlines the major challenges associated with fermentation :
   food safety , sensory properties , nutrition and health and environmental
   impact , while highlighting the concrete solutions that fdf will provide ,
   through its projects and technological platforms . 2026 the authors .
   published by elsevier masson sas on behalf of societe francaise de nutrition
   ( sfn ) .
DE fermentation processes; fermented foods; ferments du futur; food innovation;
   microorganisms

---

UT 261
AR Bhairo P, 2025, DISCOV FOOD, V5, DOI 10.1007/s44187-025-00609-x
TI Harnessing artificial intelligence for food security in a changing climate
AU Bhairo P; Maharaj R
TC 2
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2025
AB food security is one of the most pressing global challenges , exacerbated by
   climate change , political instability , and economic fluctuations . this
   review explores the potential of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in enhancing
   food security and mitigating the impacts of climate change . by leveraging
   advanced algorithms , machine learning techniques , and data analytics , ai
   can enhance food production , distribution , and consumption . predictive
   models powered by ai enable precise climate forecasts and adaptive
   strategies , offer unprecedented efficiency in agricultural planning . this
   review investigates ai s role in reshaping food security , focusing on
   applications such as predictive modeling , resource optimization and
   environmental impact assessment . ai methods , including regression models ,
   time series forecasting , neural networks , and clustering techniques , are
   used to improve agricultural productivity , crop quality , yield , and
   resilience to climate related disruptions . furthermore , these technologies
   assist governments and policymakers with actionable climate insights ,
   supporting efforts to mitigate the impacts of extreme climate events . while
   the benefits of ai in addressing food security challenges are significant ,
   there are several challenges . these include data privacy concerns , high
   implementation costs , and the need for adequate infrastructure and digital
   literacy . ai s potential in encouraging a sustainable and secure food
   future is based on addressing these challenges
DE artificial intelligence; climate change; environmental impact; food
   security; machine learning; predictive models
ID agriculture; climate models; data privacy; environmental impact; food
   security; food supply; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; prediction models; predictive analytics; regression analysis;
   changing climate; economic fluctuations; food security; global challenges;
   learning data; machine learning techniques; machine learning; political
   instability; predictive models; pressung; climate change

---

UT 262
AR Li X/4, 2020, J PHYS CONF SER, V1629, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1629/1/012074
TI Data analysis of factors influencing consumers' payment price of traceable
   food
AU Li X/4; Huang H/1
TC 0
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2020
AB taking infant formula milk powder , an important food , as an example , this
   paper selects a total of 12 explanatory variables from three aspects :
   personal characteristics , family factors and psychological factors , takes
   consumers willingness to pay for food traceability labels as dependent
   variable y , and adopts binary logistic regression model to understand and
   analyze the influencing factors of consumers willingness to pay for food
   traceability labels with big data collection and analysis . the results show
   that consumers age , education background , monthly family income ,
   consumers trust in traceable labels and total family population will
   significantly affect consumers willingness to pay for food traceability
   labels . specifically , younger consumers are more willing to pay for food
   traceability labels , consumers with higher education are more inclined to
   pay for food traceability labels , consumers with higher income are more
   inclined to pay for food traceability labels , consumers with higher
   education are more inclined to pay for food traceability labels , and
   consumers with high trust in traceability labels are more inclined to pay
   for food traceability labels
ID dairies; data science; logistic regression; machine learning; binary
   logistic regression models; dependent variables; explanatory variables; food
   traceabilitys; higher education; personal characteristics; psychological
   factors; willingness to pay; factor analysis

---

UT 263
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2021, IEEE ACCESS, V9, P27389, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3058559
TI A word embedding-based method for unsupervised adaptation of cooking recipes
AU Morales-Garzón A; Gomez-Romero J; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 33
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2021
AB studying food recipes is indispensable to understand the science of cooking
   . an essential problem in food computing is the adaptation of recipes to
   user needs and preferences . the main difficulty when adapting recipes is in
   determining ingredients relations , which are compound and hard to interpret
   . word embedding models can catch the semantics of food items in a recipe ,
   helping to understand how ingredients are combined and substituted . in this
   work , we propose an unsupervised method for adapting ingredient recipes to
   user preferences . to learn food representations and relations , we create
   and apply a specific domain word embedding model . in contrast to previous
   works , we not only use the list of ingredients to train the model but also
   the cooking instructions . we enrich the ingredient data by mapping them to
   a nutrition database to guide the adaptation and find ingredient substitutes
   . we performed three different kinds of recipe adaptation based on nutrition
   preferences , adapting to similar ingredients , and vegetarian and vegan
   diet restrictions . with a 95 % of confidence , our method can obtain
   quality adapted recipes without a previous knowledge extraction on the
   recipe adaptation domain . our results confirm the potential of using a
   specific domain semantic model to tackle the recipe adaptation task
DE data mapping; food computing; natural language processing; recipe
   adaptation; word embedding
ID embeddings; nutrition; semantics; cooking recipe; domain semantics;
   essential problems; food computing; knowledge extraction; unsupervised
   adaptation; unsupervised method; vegan diets; cooking

---

UT 264
AR Schöning J, 2022, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1609 CCIS, P17, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-22015-9_2
TI Eyetracking Nutritional Behaviour and Choices
AU Schöning J; Berkemeyer S
TC 1
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2022
AB visual attention on nutritional outcomes are currently under investigation .
   across a variety of disciplines , visual analytics currently offers many new
   applications with easy to use tools . in this interdisciplinary pilot study
   , we are refining a novel visual analytics software for assessing dietary
   and food choices . the goal is to improve our understanding of nutritional
   behavior when individuals are hungry or satiated . in addition to developing
   a software toolchain , two null hypotheses were investigated : 1 ) there is
   no difference between visual search patterns on food when subjects were
   hungry and satiated and 2 ) there is no difference in visual search patterns
   between subjects when vegetarian and non vegetarian . the experimental data
   suggest that food choices may differ from dietary patterns and are slightly
   correlated with dish gazing . using visual analytics of food scene
   perception our study suggests there is likely variation in food gazing
   pattern when hungry and when satiated . our study further suggests that
   participants dish gazing probably could be generalizable . the participants
   gazes on dishes were predicted by shallow artificial neuronal networks ( ann
   ) . the mean squared error of the predicted to the real gaze points were
   11.1 % , probably indicating that study participants scene perception of
   food could be dirigible . in conclusion , to understand the complicated
   relationship between scene perception and nutritional behavioral patterns ,
   this pilot study needs to be scaled up to a full study
DE artificial neuronal networks ( ann ); dietary patterns; food choices; gaze
   analytics; nutritional behavior; nutritional patterns; scene perception;
   visualization
ID behavioral research; mean square error; neural networks; neurons; nutrition;
   artificial neuronal network; dietary patterns; food choice; gaze analytic;
   nutritional behavior; nutritional pattern; pilot studies; scene perception;
   visual analytics; visualization

---

UT 265
AR [Anonymous], 2025, DECIS ANAL J, V16, DOI 10.1016/j.dajour.2025.100621
TI An evolutionary analytics model for enhancing food distribution through two-
   tier routing
TC 3
SO DECIS ANAL J
PY 2025
AB food insecurity remains a global challenge that demands efficient and
   equitable logistical solutions , especially in the distribution of food aid
   . this study addresses the two echelon vehicle routing problem ( 2e vrp ) in
   foodbank logistics by proposing a novel multi objective optimization
   framework . the model combines the non dominated sorting genetic algorithm
   ii ( nsga ii ) with k means clustering , a rare approach in food
   distribution logistics , to optimize route efficiency . the first echelon
   involves transporting food from a central depot to intermediate agents using
   trucks , while the second echelon involves delivering food from agents to
   beneficiaries using vans . the primary objectives are to minimize total
   delivery distance and reduce delivery time , while considering fleet
   capacities , time window constraints , and ensuring fair distribution .
   using spatial and demand data from medan , indonesia , the study evaluates
   the model s performance , computational efficiency , and sensitivity to
   logistical factors such as fleet size . results show that clustering
   improves route compactness and reduces travel distance , especially in large
   scale networks . however , it increases computational time , highlighting a
   trade off between solution quality and complexity . this research offers a
   scalable , data driven framework for foodbank logistics , contributing to
   sustainable logistics and providing an innovative solution for optimizing
   food distribution in both urban and rural settings
DE clustering strategy; evolutionary algorithm; humanitarian logistics; multi-
   objective optimization; routing efficiency; two-echelon vehicle routing

---

UT 266
AR Whig P, 2025, AI INNOV TRANSFORM FOOD PROD, P1, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-0842-5
TI AI innovations for transforming food production
AU Whig P; Elngar A
TC 0
SO AI INNOV TRANSFORM FOOD PROD
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) revolutionizes the food production industry ,
   offering innovative solutions to meet the global demand for safe ,
   nutritious , and sustainably produced food . from precision agriculture and
   smart irrigation systems to automated harvesting and supply chain analytics
   , ai technologies enhance productivity while minimizing environmental impact
   . machine learning algorithms enable farmers to make data driven decisions
   by predicting crop yields , detecting plant diseases , and optimizing
   resource usage . ai driven robotics and sensors improve efficiency and
   reduce labor costs in farming and food processing . as these innovations
   evolve , ai may transform the entire food system , making it more resilient
   , efficient , and capable . ai innovations for transforming food production
   explores the revolutionary role ai plays across various aspects of the food
   industry . it delves into how ai technologies , including machine learning ,
   robotics , and data analytics , transform food production , supply chains ,
   quality control , and sustainability . this book covers topics such as crop
   yield production , hydroponics , and precision agriculture , and is a useful
   resource for business owners , engineers , academicians , researchers , and
   agriculture scientists
ID agricultural robots; environmental impact; environmental technology; food
   industry; food processing; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; precision agriculture; quality control; smart agriculture; supply
   chains; artificial intelligence technologies; crop yield; data-driven
   decision; food production; global demand; innovative solutions; irrigation
   systems; machine learning algorithms; precision agriculture; production
   industries; crops

---

UT 267
AR Shi C, 2025, IEEE TRANS MULTIMED, V27, P8644, DOI 10.1109/TMM.2025.3607683
TI Foodfusion: A Novel Approach for Food Image Composition via Diffusion Models
AU Shi C; Wang X/3; Shi S/2; Wang X/2; Zhu M; Wang N; Gao X/1
TC 0
SO IEEE TRANS MULTIMED
PY 2025
AB food image composition requires the use of existing dish images and
   background images to synthesize a natural new image , while diffusion models
   have made significant advancements in image generation , enabling the
   construction of end to end architectures that yield promising results .
   however , existing diffusion models face challenges in processing and fusing
   information from multiple images and lack access to high quality publicly
   available datasets , which prevents the application of diffusion models in
   food image composition . in this paper , we introduce a large scale , high
   quality food image composite dataset , fc22 k , which comprises 22,000
   foreground , background , and ground truth ternary image pairs .
   additionally , we propose a novel food image composition method , foodfusion
   , which leverages the capabilities of the pre trained diffusion models and
   incorporates a fusion module for processing and integrating foreground and
   background information . this fused information aligns the foreground
   features with the background structure by merging the global structural
   information at the cross attention layer of the denoising unet . to further
   enhance the content and structure of the background , we also integrate a
   content structure control module . extensive experiments demonstrate the
   effectiveness and scalability of our proposed method
DE diffusion model; food computing; food dataset; image composition
ID large datasets; structure ( composition ); background image; diffusion
   model; end to end; food computing; food dataset; food image; high quality;
   image composition; image generations; multiple image; diffusion

---

UT 268
AR Shao H, 2020, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V41, P291, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20190608-078
TI Scientometric Analysis of Cross-Disciplinary Studies on Food Safety and Data
   Science in China; [我国食品安全与数据科学交叉研究的科学计量学分析]
AU Shao H; Song Y; Li M/1; Shao W; Lei S/1; Ku R; Xia Y/1
TC 4
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2020
AB china s 13th five year plan for national food safety proposes to enhance the
   capacity of technical support for food safety . the collection , storage and
   mining of food safety data are a crucial part of food safety technology .
   analyzing the achievements that have been made in cross disciplinary studies
   on food safety and data science and exploring future trends in this area in
   china are of great practical significance for promoting the application of
   data driven food safety technology . in this study , the china national
   knowledge infrastructure database was retrieved for ' topic containing food
   safety and data ' , and totally 3 375 pieces of literature information
   published in 1996-2019 were collected and used as dataset for mining
   scientific and technological texts by scientometric method and citespace
   software . moreover , data visualization was carried out by using keywords
   clustering map , time line map and burstness map . it was found that the
   number of published papers in this field was increased exponentially in the
   past 23 years . totally , 3 categories and 11 sub categories of subject
   clustering were formed , and the development process involved 3 stages by
   time line clustering : 1996-2006 , 2007-2014 and 2015-2019. those studies
   showed that the cross disciplinary study on food safety and data science in
   china has reached a certain scale in terms of output , cooperation and
   research topics , and is currently developing rapidly under the guidance of
   new disciplinary growth points . 2020 , china food publishing company . all
   right reserved .
DE citespace; cluster analysis; data science; data visualization; food safety;
   research hotspots; scientometrics
ID data science; data visualization; digital storage; food safety; safety
   engineering; text mining; cross-disciplinary; development process; five-year
   plans; national foods; research topics; scientometric analysis;
   scientometrics; technical support; food storage

---

UT 269
AR Liou J-L, 2025, SYST, V13, DOI 10.3390/systems13100886
TI Monetizing Food Waste and Loss Externalities in National Food Supply Chains:
   A Systems Analytics Framework
AU Liou J-L; Huang S-CM
TC 0
SO SYST
PY 2025
AB reducing food loss and waste ( flw ) is a global priority under un sdg 12.3
   , yet taiwan has lacked stage specific flw data and systematic valuation of
   its environmental and economic implications . this study addresses these
   gaps by integrating localized flw estimates from the apec flows database
   with an enhanced analytical framework the environmentally extended
   inputoutput valuation ( eeio v ) model . the eeio v extends conventional
   inputoutput analysis by monetizing multiple environmental burdens ,
   including greenhouse gasses , air pollutants , wastewater , and solid waste
   , thereby linking flw reduction to tangible economic benefits and policy
   design . the simulations reveal substantial differences in environmental
   cost reductions across supply chain stages , with downstream interventions
   delivering the largest benefits , particularly in reducing air pollution and
   greenhouse gasses . by contrast , upstream measures contribute relatively
   smaller improvements . these findings highlight the novelty of eeio v in
   bridging environmental valuation with system level flw analysis , and they
   provide actionable insights for designing cost effective , stage specific
   strategies that prioritize downstream interventions to advance taiwan s
   sustainability and policy goals
DE environmentally extended inputoutput valuation model ( eeio-v ); food loss
   and waste ( flw ); food supply chain ( fsc ); monetary valuation of
   environmental impacts
ID air pollution; cost benefit analysis; cost effectiveness; cost reduction;
   economic analysis; food supply; resource valuation; supply chains;
   sustainable development; environmentally extended inputoutput valuation
   model; food loss; food loss and waste; food supply chain; food waste;
   inputoutput; monetary valuation of environmental impact; monetary
   valuations; valuation model; greenhouse gasses

---

UT 270
AR Kolev K, 2021, J HYG ENG DES, V33, P48
TI Novel techniques for food traceability system
AU Kolev K; Maksimova R
TC 2
SO J HYG ENG DES
PY 2021
AB food traceability is important for food control accord ing eu regulation .
   implementing real time food trace ability requires the use of novel
   networking solutions and computer embedded systems . this paper intro duces
   a new technique for active food traceability based on energy efficient
   wireless sensor networks long range wide area networking ( lorawan ) tech
   nology . our network infrastructure is for active food traceabil ity based
   on existing internet of things technologies . lora is used as technology for
   communication due to the fact that its end nodes allow secure communication
   up to 5 km in urban area . a model for a modern infrastructure for food
   traceability has been developed . based on the proposed model for network
   infrastructure for active food traceability a block diagram of such a
   traceability system has been synthesized . the main modules of our food
   traceability system include lora end node , lora gateway , the things
   network , application server , router and mobile device . special attention
   has been paid to the selection and the design of our lora sensor end node
   for food traceability by using modern microcontroller atmega32u4 , rn2483
   trans mitter , tcs34725 color sensor and bme280 environmental sensor . an
   exemplary use of our end module for food traceability is active monitoring
   of meat prod ucts . the schematics and algorithmic diagram of the designed
   food traceability sensor end node are given . we have developed a web
   application in python for real time monitoring of meat products during
   storage sensor data like temperature , color and humidity . the flowchart
   diagram of our web application for active food traceability is given . a
   graphical user interface for monitoring of technological parameters
   temperature ( from 200c to +400c ) , relative humidity ( from 0 to 100 % ) ,
   lighting ( from 0 to 100 % ) and color ( are = 0-255 , g = 0-255 , g = 0-255
   ) is proposed . the proposed system is open hardware and software and allows
   expansion with different types of sensors and dashboards . the novel
   technique adapts working models and technologies for new food traceability
   cas es . our sensor end node is reusable and reprogramma ble for different
   real time traceability of food products . 2021 , consulting and training
   center key
DE computer systems; food traceability; internet of food; lorawan

---

UT 271
AR Donaghy JA, 2021, MICROBIOL, V12, DOI 10.3389/fmicb.2021.668196
TI Big Data Impacting Dynamic Food Safety Risk Management in the Food Chain
AU Donaghy JA; Danyluk MD; Ross T; Krishna B; Farber J
TC 52
SO MICROBIOL
PY 2021
AB foodborne pathogens are a major contributor to foodborne illness worldwide .
   the adaptation of a more quantitative risk based approach , with metrics
   such as food safety objectives ( fso ) and performance objectives ( po )
   necessitates quantitative inputs from all stages of the food value chain .
   the potential exists for utilization of big data , generated through digital
   transformational technologies , as inputs to a dynamic risk management
   concept for food safety microbiology . the industrial revolution in internet
   of things ( iot ) will leverage data inputs from precision agriculture ,
   connected factories / logistics , precision healthcare , and precision food
   safety , to improve the dynamism of microbial risk management . furthermore
   , interconnectivity of public health databases , social media , and e
   commerce tools as well as technologies such as blockchain will enhance
   traceability for retrospective and real time management of foodborne cases .
   despite the enormous potential of data volume and velocity , some challenges
   remain , including data ownership , interoperability , and accessibility .
   this paper gives insight to the prospective use of big data for dynamic risk
   management from a microbiological safety perspective in the context of the
   international commission on microbiological specifications for foods ( icmsf
   ) conceptual equation , and describes examples of how a dynamic risk
   management system ( drms ) could be used in real time to identify hazards
   and control shiga toxin producing escherichia coli risks related to leafy
   greens
DE data; food; management; risk; safety
ID article; big data; blockchain; controlled study; drug safety; electronic
   commerce; factory; food chain; food safety; human; internet of things; leafy
   vegetable; nonhuman; precision agriculture; public health; risk management;
   shiga toxin producing escherichia coli; social media; time management

---

UT 272
AR Li D, 2021, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P20, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW53142.2021.00011
TI Nutrition Guided Recipe Search via Pre-Trained Recipe Embeddings
AU Li D; Zaki MJ; Chen C-H
TC 7
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2021
AB the use of machine learning to recommend foods that are both healthy and
   tasty is an open problem . fundamentally , it is challenging to balance
   health goals with preferences in taste , while offering users a large
   diversity of options . representing recipes via embedding vectors trained on
   large scale food datasets can capture the implicit semantics of a recipe .
   we utilize pre trained embeddings to perform recipe search and compare our
   search results with a keyword based search . we compare the health score ,
   nutritional content and recipe titles returned using both search approaches
   . our exploratory experiments show that recipe search via embeddings can
   return more diverse recipe titles in contrast to keyword based search
DE food computing; food recommendation; recipe representation; recipe search
ID large dataset; nutrition; semantics; embeddings; food computing; food
   recommendation; health scores; implicit semantics; keyword-based search;
   large-scales; machine learning; recipe representation; recipe search;
   embeddings

---

UT 273
AR Sajith R, 2023, WORLD CONF COMMUN COMPUT WCONF, DOI
   10.1109/WCONF58270.2023.10235177
TI Nutrient Estimation from Images of Food for Diet Management in Diabetic
   Patients
AU Sajith R; Khatua C; Kalita D; Mirza KB
TC 7
SO WORLD CONF COMMUN COMPUT WCONF
PY 2023
AB due to its close relationship to health and chronic diseases , diet has a
   significant impact on how individuals live their daily lives . deep learning
   based food computing is developing in the meantime to offer a variety of
   services , such as food identification , nutrient estimation , and so forth
   . this research seeks to recognize food utilizing several image processing
   approaches , feed that information into an deep learning architecture for
   classification , and obtain its nutrition information . the work is entirely
   coded in python language on google colaboratory . the neural network used is
   mobilenetv2 , which is a lightweight model . the model has a test accuracy
   of 99 % after 5 fold cross validation . based on the obtained results of
   this research an android app is developed which can easily used by diabetic
   patients or fitness freak , health enthusiasts , and common people in
   society . the app predicts the food item and displays its calorie and
   macronutrient contents
DE cross validation; deep learning; diet management; macronutrient;
   mobilenetv2; nutrition
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; image processing;
   nutrients; chronic disease; cross validation; daily lives; deep learning;
   diabetics patients; diet management; food computing; images processing;
   macronutrient; mobilenetv2; nutrition

---

UT 274
AR Zhu X/1, 2026, MULTIMED SYST, V32, DOI 10.1007/s00530-025-02143-3
TI DPFA-net: a lightweight hybrid neural network with dual path feature
   aggregation for food image recognition
AU Zhu X/1; Zhang W/3; Sheng Y; Lv C/1; Sheng G; Min W; Jiang S
TC 0
SO MULTIMED SYST
PY 2026
AB food image recognition holds significant application potential in the field
   of computer vision . however , due to performance constraints on mobile
   devices , the scale and computational overhead of models face notable
   limitations , making effective deployment on mobile platforms challenging .
   to address this issue , this paper proposes a lightweight dual path feature
   aggregation network ( dpfa net ) , designed to enhance the performance of
   food recognition tasks through efficient local and global feature extraction
   strategies . specifically , the dpfa architecture comprises two core modules
   : the ghostbottleneck module for local feature encoding and the position
   mamba vision transformer ( pm vit ) module for global modeling . in this
   work , the ghostbottleneck module is utilized to extract local features from
   images . furthermore , by integrating the mamba structure with the separable
   self attention ( ssa ) structure , we construct the mamba attention ( ma )
   module , which replaces the traditional attention mechanism in vision
   transformers to build the pm vit module , enabling the capture of global
   features in food images . the redesigned dpfa net effectively fuses local
   and global information , achieving efficient food image recognition . the
   experiments were conducted on the ethz food 101 , vireo food 172 , and uec
   food 256 datasets . the results show that , while reducing the number of
   parameters , dpfa net achieved top 1 accuracies of 91.46 % , 91.59 % , and
   75.33 % , respectively , representing a 1.50 % 3.9 % improvement over
   mobilevitv2 . compared to mobilevitv2 , dpfa net improves performance by
   1.503.9 % , fully validating the effectiveness and superiority of the dpfa
   architecture . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer verlag
   gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2025 .
DE food computing; food image recognition; lightweight; vision transformer
ID computer vision; mobile telecommunication systems; network architecture;
   neural networks; aggregation network; dual path; feature aggregation; food
   computing; food image; food image recognition; global feature; lightweight;
   local feature; vision transformer; image recognition

---

UT 275
AR Yilmaz A, 2023, CEUR WORK PROC, V3415, P42
TI FSO: Food Safety Monitoring Ontology
AU Yilmaz A; Naidu R; Brewster C
TC 1
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2023
AB food safety is more than ever dependent on data collected about food samples
   by means of both laboratory analysis and , more recently , non destructive
   sensors . the latter emerging technologies for food safety monitoring show
   great promise for ensuring the quality and suitability of food . being non
   destructive and quantitative as well as rapid and automated , they generate
   large amounts of data . however , because this is a relatively young field
   and given the large variety of measurement methods , types of sensors and
   devices available , so far there exist no data standards to enable data
   sharing and interoperability between data collections . therefore , much of
   this data remains inaccessible in separate laboratories and research
   institutions limiting the community s ability to develop comprehensive data
   driven predictive analysis and monitoring models . in the context of the
   horizon 2020 ditect project , we have developed semantically enabled
   software systems for standardized data management to enable data sharing and
   data analytics by stakeholders in the food safety sector . in this paper ,
   we present ditect food safety ontology for covering food safety analysis
   technologies and methods for noninvasive and rapid assessment of safety and
   authenticity of food products . the ontology maximally reuses well known
   concepts from widely used reference ontologies related to the domains of
   measurement , agriculture , food and biochemical analysis . our expectation
   is that our ontology will become a key , publicly accessible resource for
   enabling the use of data science in food safety sector
DE ceur-ws; food analysis; food safety; food safety monitoring; ontology
ID data acquisition; data analytics; food products; food safety; information
   management; ceur-ws; data sharing; food analysis; food safety monitoring;
   food samples; food safety; nondestructive; ontologys; safety monitoring;
   ontology

---

UT 276
AR Zhao Z/1, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V463, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2024.141238
TI Application of machine vision in food computing: A review
AU Zhao Z/1; Wang R/6; Liu M/1; Bai L/1; Sun Y/4
TC 47
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB with global intelligence advancing and the awareness of sustainable
   development growing , artificial intelligence technology is increasingly
   being applied to the food industry . this paper , grounded in practical
   application cases , reviews the current research status and prospects of
   machine visionbased image recognition technology in food computing . it
   explores the general workflow of image recognition , applications based on
   traditional machine learning and deep learning methods . the paper covers
   areas including food safety detection , dietary nutrition analysis , process
   monitoring , and enterprise management model optimization . the aim is to
   provide a solid theoretical foundation and technical guidance for the
   integration and cross fertilization of the food industry with artificial
   intelligence technology
DE artificial intelligence; food computing; image recognition; machine vision
ID artificial intelligence; deep learning; food safety; humans; machine
   learning; artificial intelligence technologies; current research status;
   food computing; food industries; global intelligence; image recognition
   technology; machine vision; status and prospect; vision based; work-flows;
   article; artificial intelligence; awareness; cross fertilization; deep
   learning; food; food industry; food safety; human; intelligence; machine;
   machine learning; nutrition; process monitoring; sustainable development;
   therapy; vision; workflow; machine learning; machine vision

---

UT 277
AR Wang Q/4, 2022, IEEE INT CONF SOFTW ENG ARTIF INTELL SEAI, P64, DOI
   10.1109/SEAI55746.2022.9832133
TI Swin Transformer Based Pyramid Pooling Network for Food Segmentation
AU Wang Q/4; Dong X; Wang R/1; Sun H/1
TC 16
SO IEEE INT CONF SOFTW ENG ARTIF INTELL SEAI
PY 2022
AB food segmentation is critical to human health and is one of the elements of
   food computing that provides the basis for nutritional assessment as well as
   composition testing . food image segmentation differs from general images in
   that it usually does not exhibit a unique spatial layout and common semantic
   patterns . current food segmentation methods mainly utilize deep visual
   features of convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) to achieve image
   segmentation of food , which ignore the characteristics of food images and
   make it difficult to achieve the best segmentation performance . in this
   paper , we propose a swin transformer based pyramid network to capture
   richer background and boundary information and adaptively combine local
   features with global features to solve the food image segmentation task .
   the pyramid pooling module ( ppm ) aggregates contextual information from
   different regions of the food image , thus improving the feature
   representation of global information . secondly , the multi scale features
   acquired by the ppm module are constructed into a feature pyramid , and the
   multi scale features are weighted , and then richer edge information is
   extracted . experiments are conducted on the foodseg103 dataset , and the
   results show that the method has better results compared with the
   traditional method , maximizing the details of edges and veins with
   significant improvements
DE food image segmentation; multiple perceptrons; pyramid network; swin
   transformer
ID computer vision; convolutional neural networks; image enhancement; semantic
   segmentation; well testing; food computing; food image; food image
   segmentation; human health; images segmentations; multi-scale features;
   multiple perceptron; pyramid network; spatial layout; swin transformer;
   semantics

---

UT 278
AR Sheng Z, 2026, SUSTAIN COMPUT INFORMATICS SYST, V50, DOI
   10.1016/j.suscom.2026.101362
TI AI-driven big data acquisition and optimization in cold chain logistics
   using energy-aware IoT systems
AU Sheng Z; Yilin W; Jintao W; Keli X
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN COMPUT INFORMATICS SYST
PY 2026
AB cold chain logistics plays a critical role in preserving the quality and
   safety of temperature sensitive products in the food , pharmaceutical , and
   chemical industries . this study proposes a conceptual framework that
   integrates artificial intelligence ( ai ) , big data analytics , and energy
   aware internet of things ( iot ) systems to improve operational performance
   , sustainability , and product reliability . by utilizing real time sensor
   information , predictive modeling , and blockchain based traceability , the
   framework enables intelligent monitoring , anomaly identification , and
   optimized energy management across the supply chain . trend analysis from
   2019 to 2025 indicates that ai has emerged as the leading fourth industrial
   revolution ( 4ir ) technology , reaching a peak relative frequency of 95.7
   in 2025 , highlighting its growing influence in smart logistics and data
   driven decision making . furthermore , social media analytics reveal that
   food companies , particularly non vegetarian brands , achieve greater
   engagement on platforms such as youtube and whatsapp , emphasizing the role
   of digital communication in strengthening consumer trust and transparency .
   although this study does not include empirical validation , it outlines key
   challenges , including interoperability issues and regulatory limitations ,
   and provides a strategic roadmap for future research and pilot projects
   aimed at developing resilient , transparent , and energy aware cold chain
   systems
DE artificial intelligence; big data analytics; blockchain traceability; cold
   chain logistics; defect detection; energy-aware iot systems; food safety and
   integrity; smart refrigeration systems; social media analytics
ID accident prevention; advanced analytics; big data; chemical industry; data
   acquisition; digital communication systems; food safety; information
   management; internet of things; interoperability; logistics; real time
   systems; supply chain management; supply chains; big data analytic;
   blockchain; blockchain traceability; cold chain logistics; data analytics;
   defect detection; energy-aware; energy-aware internet of thing system; food
   safety and integrity; food safety; refrigeration system; smart refrigeration
   system; social media analytics; blockchain

---

UT 279
AR Kaur A, 2025, REVOLUTIONIZING SUSTAIN FOOD PROD QUANTUM COMPUT, P303, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-3957-3_10
TI Forecasting for a Greener Future
AU Kaur A; Kaur G; Sandhu R; Ghai D
TC 0
SO REVOLUTIONIZING SUSTAIN FOOD PROD QUANTUM COMPUT
PY 2025
AB the global challenge of food waste nearly one third of all food produced is
   a critical issue with environmental , economic , and social impacts . in
   alignment with un sdg 12.3 to halve food waste by 2030 , this chapter
   explores how predictive analytics can transform the food supply chain .
   leveraging ai , ml , iot , and realtime data , predictive models are used to
   forecast demand , optimize inventory , and anticipate spoilage . advanced
   solutions like digital twins , blockchain traceability , computer vision for
   freshness detection , and context aware recommendation systems are discussed
   in this chapter . these tools adapt to variables such as seasonality ,
   consumer behavior , supply chain disruptions , and climate change . the
   chapter also addresses ethical concerns , data management , and the
   scalability of predictive technologies in both developed and emerging
   economies . it emphasizes the need for interdisciplinary research and
   collaboration among governments , tech companies , and stakeholders to
   institutionalize predictive analytics for a sustainable and resilient global
   food ecosystem
ID climate change; consumer behavior; economics; ecosystems; ethical
   technology; information management; prediction models; blockchain; critical
   issues; economic impacts; environmental economics; food supply chain; food
   waste; global challenges; predictive models; real- time; social impact;
   predictive analytics

---

UT 280
AR Azham MSSN, 2024, PROC INT CONF APPL SYST INNOV ICASI, P184, DOI
   10.1109/ICASI60819.2024.10547846
TI Design of an IoT-Based Food Quality Monitoring System
AU Azham MSSN; Enzai NIM
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF APPL SYST INNOV ICASI
PY 2024
AB a prototype of a food quality monitoring system is designed and developed to
   ensure the quality and safety of food . internet of things ( iot )
   technology is used to monitor the condition of food quality based on the
   monitored factors . sensors are integrated into the system to collect data
   such as temperature , humidity , and alcohol content . nodemcu controls all
   the received data and processes all the obtained data to provide a suitable
   response for the output . the prototype comes with an online system that
   displays the sensor values and gives notification when the measured values
   are not optimal . blynk software platform is used to develop the online
   system . this work is expected to address the problem of foodborne diseases
   and food wastage
DE food quality; iot; monitoring; sensor
ID food safety; alcohol contents; condition; food quality; humidity content;
   internet of things technologies; quality and safeties; quality monitoring
   system; safety of food; sensor values; temperature/ humidities; internet of
   things

---

UT 281
AR Rulinawaty R, 2024, AIP CONF PROC, V3065, DOI 10.1063/5.0225794
TI Management model of food big data for national food security policy
AU Rulinawaty R; Andriyansah A; Santosa A; Fadillah S; Karyana A; Efendi Y
TC 0
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2024
AB the government has a role and responsibility for public goods , in this case
   , the responsibility for food problems in indonesia . the food problem is
   complex , so it is no longer possible for the government to work alone . the
   government needs to collaborate with stakeholders involved in the food
   supply . contributions are expected from outside parties , especially the
   private sector and non governmental organizations . the involvement and
   contributions of various stakeholders show the existence of a network that
   allows the implementation of food security policies to run effectively and
   efficiently . the indonesian food management stakeholder network uses the
   strategic model through big data analytic analysis . thirty four different
   studies presented , examining the problems they tackle , proposed solutions
   , tools , algorithms , and data used , the nature and dimensions of the big
   data used , the scale of use , and the overall impact . the results of the
   descriptive analysis are in the form of grouping and visualization of food
   big data . the results of the significant data analysis process produce a
   decision map to see the causes of the level of food production in a province
   . the predictive process produces a regression model to calculate the
   following year s production and prospective analysis in the form of a profit
   system designed for national food security policies
DE big data analytics; food security; public governance; public policy

---

UT 282
AR Zhong Y/2, 2020, PROC - ANNU INT CONF DATA SCI BUS ANAL ICDSBA, P36, DOI
   10.1109/ICDSBA51020.2020.00017
TI Research on the Application of Big Data in Smart Food Safety
AU Zhong Y/2; He C/2; Tang J/2
TC 2
SO PROC - ANNU INT CONF DATA SCI BUS ANAL ICDSBA
PY 2020
AB food safety is not only related to the vital interests of the public , but
   also related to the long term stability of the country . first , the source
   and characteristics of big data in the food industry are combed , in this
   paper . then , the pretreatment process of big data for smart food safety is
   described , and its parallel computing model is introduced . at last , the
   application contexts of smart food safety are provided
DE big data; data mining; data preprocessing; food safety; smart food safety;
   the internet of things ( iot )
ID big data; data mining; internet of things; application contexts; data
   preprocessing; food industries; food safety; long term stability; parallel
   computing models; pretreatment process; smart food safety; the internet of
   thing; food safety

---

UT 283
AR Wang K/2, 2026, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15921 LNAI, P372, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-95-3055-7_29
TI MCC: Multi-level Feature and Context-Aware Attention Mechanism with
   Consistent Distributions for Recipe Retrieval
AU Wang K/2; Xu H/2; Liu J/9
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2026
AB with people s increasing emphasis on healthy eating , food computing has
   become a significant research area , in which recipe retrieval is an
   essential part . in this paper , we are interested in retrieving food
   recipes from food images and vice versa . we present multi level feature and
   context aware attention mechanism with consistent distributions for recipe
   retrieval ( mcc ) . to reduce the distance between image modality and text
   modality , we introduce maximum mean discrepancy and propose a novel triplet
   loss ( tl mmd ) , which outperforms traditional triplet loss by effectively
   aligning cross modal distributions and enhancing convergence , thus
   achieving superior retrieval accuracy . considering that a dish comprises
   multiple ingredients , with specific regions roughly corresponding to
   individual ingredients , we propose an encoder with multi level features
   that innovatively integrates an advanced attention mechanism . this approach
   surpasses traditional cnn based encoders by dynamically focusing on key
   image regions and fusing multi resolution features , achieving richer and
   more detailed representations . furthermore , we construct a contextual
   attention module ( cam ) , targeting distinct regions in the image and
   individual words in the recipe simultaneously , to discover full latent
   alignments and infer region word similarity with greater precision and
   interpretability than prior methods . our model surpasses the competition by
   achieving state of the art performance on recipe1m , boasting an improvement
   of 24 % . through ablation experiments , we verify that each of our
   components contributes significantly to enhancing the performance ,
   collectively establishing mcc as a superior solution for cross modal recipe
   retrieval
DE context-aware attention mechanism; cross-modal retrieval; food computing;
   multi-level feature fusion; triplet loss
ID computer vision; food ingredients; modal analysis; attention mechanisms;
   context-aware; context-aware attention mechanism; cross-modal; cross-modal
   retrieval; features fusions; food computing; multi-level feature fusion;
   multilevels; triplet loss; signal encoding

---

UT 284
AR Fisher E, 2025, NUTR DIET, V82, P363, DOI 10.1111/1747-0080.70007
TI Energy and protein intake threshold modelling using nutrition dashboard
   technology and sensitivity of hospital malnutrition identification
AU Fisher E; Brown L; Duncanson K
TC 2
SO NUTR DIET
PY 2025
AB aims : hospital food provision / intake dashboards may improve malnutrition
   screening . the aim of this study was to use nutrition dashboard data to
   determine the optimal threshold for screening for malnutrition risk , and
   compare the accuracy of this method with estimated dietary requirements .
   methods : observational data were extracted from medical files and food
   service records of 267 patients for a 4-month period in a 99-bed hospital .
   energy ( 25008000 kj ) and protein ( 3090 g ) thresholds were applied for
   nutrition dashboard categorization by supply and intake of food . deficits
   in estimated requirements ( 105 kj / kg / day and 0.75 g / kg / day ) were
   also applied as a comparative method . the association between nutrition
   dashboard categories and the malnutrition screening tool was explored using
   generalized estimating equations . results : a total of 267 patients and
   1908 days of data were analyzed . the use of estimated requirements for
   nutrition dashboard categorization was not a statistically significant
   predictor of malnutrition risk . application of energy ( 6000 kj ) and
   protein ( 65 g ) thresholds for categorization was significant ( 2 = 9.50 ,
   df = 3 , p = 0.023 ) . when 5000 kj and 55 g of protein were used for
   categorization , patients were more likely to be at malnutrition risk when
   within low supply ( odds ratio = 2.11 , p = 0.002 ) and low intake ( odds
   ratio 2.23 , p < 0.001 ) categories . conclusions : nutrition dashboard
   categories are associated with an increased risk of malnutrition when
   categorized using thresholds of up to 6000 kj and 65 g protein .
   technologies like the nutrition dashboard present innovative opportunities
   for dietitians to utilize nutrition informatics to enhance and optimize
   nutrition care . 2025 the author ( s ) . nutrition and dietetics published
   by john wiley and sons australia , ltd on behalf of dietitians australia .
DE energy intake; hospitals; informatics; malnutrition screening; protein
   intake; technology
ID adult; aged; aged 80 and over; dietary proteins; energy intake; female; food
   service hospital; humans; male; malnutrition; middle aged; nutrition
   assessment; nutritional requirements; nutritional status; adult; aged;
   caloric intake; diagnosis; female; hospital food service; human; male;
   malnutrition; middle aged; nutritional assessment; nutritional requirement;
   nutritional status; protein intake; very elderly

---

UT 285
AR Imajuku Y, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15520 LNCS, P401, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-2054-8_30
TI FoodMLLM-JP: Leveraging Multimodal Large Language Models for Japanese Recipe
   Generation
AU Imajuku Y; Yamakata Y; Aizawa K
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB research on food image understanding using recipe data has been a long
   standing focus due to the diversity and complexity of the data . moreover ,
   food is inextricably linked to people s lives , making it a vital research
   area for practical applications such as dietary management . recent
   advancements in multimodal large language models ( mllms ) have demonstrated
   remarkable capabilities , not only in their vast knowledge but also in their
   ability to handle languages naturally . while english is predominantly used
   , they can also support multiple languages including japanese . this
   suggests that mllms are expected to significantly improve performance in
   food image understanding tasks . we fine tuned open mllms llava 1.5 and phi
   3 vision on a japanese recipe dataset and benchmarked their performance
   against the closed model gpt 4o . we then evaluated the content of generated
   recipes , including ingredients and cooking procedures , using 5,000
   evaluation samples that comprehensively cover japanese food culture . our
   evaluation demonstrates that the open models trained on recipe data
   outperform gpt 4o , the current state of the art model , in ingredient
   generation . our model achieved f1 score of 0.531 , surpassing gpt 4o s f1
   score of 0.481 , indicating a higher level of accuracy . furthermore , our
   model exhibited comparable performance to gpt 4o in generating cooking
   procedure text
DE food computing; large multi-modal models; multi-modal large language models;
   recipe text generation; vision and language
ID food chemistry; food computing; food image; language model; large multi-
   modal model; multi-modal; multi-modal large language model; multi-modal
   models; recipe text generation; text generations; vision and language; food
   ingredients

---

UT 286
AR Zhang F, 2024, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P81, DOI 10.1145/3677779.3677792
TI Research on Food Safety Information Supervision Based on Artificial
   Intelligence and Big Data
AU Zhang F
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2024
AB with the advent of the era of big data and artificial intelligence , the
   seamless supervision of food safety has been further promoted , and the food
   safety situation has been improving . when food safety meets ' artificial
   intelligence ' and continues to be deeply integrated , it will surely become
   the common gospel of our people and even the whole world . this paper mainly
   expounds and discusses the application of artificial intelligence combined
   with big data in food safety and supervision . based on this , taking a city
   as an example , this paper deeply analyzes the policy basis of introducing
   big data technology , the logical structure of big data embedding and the
   empowerment of big data application function in the process of food safety
   supervision in this city through text analysis and technology embedding
   theory , and hopes that this technology will be more popular in the future
   food safety strategy and promote the improvement of people s living
   standards and quality of life
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food safety; food supervision
ID application functions; big data applications; data embedding; data
   technologies; food supervision; food safety; logical structure; policy base;
   safety information; safety supervision

---

UT 287
AR Guo M, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V492, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.145649
TI Deep learning algorithm-assisted non-destructive detection of TBARS values
   of salmon flesh using multi-modal molecular spectra fusion
AU Guo M; Lin H/1; Feng H; Cao L; Sui J; Wang X/1; Wang K
TC 7
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB this study presents a deep learning framework for the non destructive
   assessment of lipid oxidation in salmon flesh , quantified by thiobarbituric
   acid reactive substances ( tbars ) , under diverse storage conditions ( 20 ,
   0 , 4 , 20 c , and dynamic temperatures ) . by integrating multi modal
   molecular spectroscopy ( near infrared and raman ) with a convolutional
   neural network ( cnn ) , the research achieved enhanced accuracy in
   predicting tbars values compared to partial least squares regression ( plsr
   ) and long short term memory ( lstm ) models . the cnn achieved superior
   performance with r2p = 0.866 and rpd = 4.136. its end to end architecture
   and spectral data fusion improved prediction robustness and enabled real
   time , non invasive monitoring of salmon quality . this approach addresses
   industry demands for efficient cold chain quality assessment , offering a
   scalable solution to optimize freshness evaluation and consumer satisfaction
   . overall , the methodology demonstrates the strong potential of combining
   multi modal spectroscopy with deep learning to advance food quality
   analytics in dynamic storage environments
DE convolutional neural network; data fusion; multi-modal molecular
   spectroscopy; salmon flesh; thiobarbituric acid reactive substances
ID algorithms; animals; deep learning; neural networks computer; salmon;
   seafood; spectrum analysis raman; thiobarbituric acid reactive substances;
   convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; digital storage; food
   storage; learning algorithms; quality control; thiobarbituric acid reactive
   substance; thiobarbituric acid reactive substance; convolutional neural
   network; learning frameworks; molecular spectra; multi-modal; multi-modal
   molecular spectroscopy; nondestructive assessment; nondestructive detection;
   salmon flesh; thiobarbituric acid reactive substances; thiobarbituric acid
   reactive substances; article; convolutional neural network; customer
   satisfaction; deep learning; food quality; learning algorithm; lipid
   oxidation; long short-term memory network; nonhuman; partial least squares
   regression; prediction; quality control; refrigeration; salmonine;
   spectroscopy; storage condition; temperature; algorithm; animal; artificial
   neural network; evaluation study; procedures; raman spectrometry; sea food;
   convolution; molecular spectroscopy

---

UT 288
AR Punia S, 2022, KNOWL BASED SYST, V258, DOI 10.1016/j.knosys.2022.109956
TI Predictive analytics for demand forecasting: A deep learning-based decision
   support system
AU Punia S; Shankar S
TC 95
SO KNOWL BASED SYST
PY 2022
AB the demand is often forecasted using econometric ( regression ) or
   statistical forecasting methods . however , most of these methods lack the
   ability to model both temporal ( linear and nonlinear ) and covariates based
   variations in a demand series simultaneously . in this context , a novel
   forecasting model is proposed that combines a state of the art sequence
   modeling method and a machine learning method in an ensemble model . the
   proposed model can handle both types of variations in demand data , and thus
   , enhances forecasts accuracy . a big sample of 4235 demand series
   consisting of structured and unstructured data ( could be referred to as '
   big data ' ) related to packaged food products is used for experimentation .
   data contain point of sales , promotion , weather , regional economy ,
   internet media , and economic activity index related variables . some of
   these variables and their combinations is probably used for the first time
   in a demand forecasting model . the forecasting results are evaluated
   through multiple error metrics ( i . e . mean error , mean absolute error ,
   mean squared error ) , and it has been observed that proposed method
   outperformed the benchmarking methods . a demand sensing algorithm is also
   proposed to forecast demand in real time
DE deep learning; demand forecasting; demand sensing; optimization; predictive
   analytics; retail
ID deep learning; economics; errors; learning systems; mean square error;
   predictive analytics; regional planning; covariates; deep learning; demand
   forecasting; demand sensing; forecasting methods; forecasting models;
   optimizations; retail; state of the art; statistical forecasting; decision
   support systems

---

UT 289
AR Kappelman AC, 2021, COMP OPER RES, V126, DOI 10.1016/j.cor.2020.105117
TI Optimal control in dynamic food supply chains using big data
AU Kappelman AC; Sinha AK/1
TC 41
SO COMP OPER RES
PY 2021
AB we consider a dynamic food supply chain with multiple process steps where
   the decisions at each step include supplier selection and settings for their
   process parameters . we assume that the resulting quality level of the
   product at every step is stochastic . we also consider that this quality
   level at each supply chain step has a minimum accepted level and any product
   that does not meet the minimum accepted level is rejected . we propose an
   integrated approach that uses big data mining techniques to study the effect
   of these decisions on the quality of the final product and determine our
   state transition matrix . from there , stochastic optimization methods are
   implemented to find an optimal policy describing the preferred suppliers and
   settings for their process parameters . the goal of this policy is to
   maximize the supply chain s expected profit and reduce rejected product . we
   show how this technique outperforms traditional techniques in running time
   as the problem s complexity ( state and action space size ) grows . we also
   conduct experiments to explore how the optimal policy changes as the quality
   threshold for acceptance becomes more restrictive and exhibits a convex
   behavior
DE big data mining; markov decision process; perishable products; stochastic
   optimization; supply chain
ID big data; food supply; optimization; supply chains; expected profits;
   integrated approach; optimal policies; process parameters; state transition
   matrix; stochastic optimization methods; supplier selection; traditional
   techniques; data mining

---

UT 290
AR Ganeshkumar C, 2023, INT J BUS INTELL RES, V14, DOI 10.4018/IJBIR.317419
TI Adoption of Big Data Analytics: Determinants and Performances Among Food
   Industries
AU Ganeshkumar C; Sankar JG; David A
TC 21
SO INT J BUS INTELL RES
PY 2023
AB the study presents the results of the work undertaken to analyze constructs
   that make the companies adopt big data in the food industry toward the
   financial and market performance . data was collected from 300 food industry
   employees who work in vital roles in the company . primary data was
   collected through a survey method and a theoretical model was tested .
   technological organizational enviornmental ( toe ) framework was adopted ,
   and the factors were analyzed using smart pls software . it reveals that
   trialability , observability , complexity , and top management support are
   having a greater influence on big data analytics ( bda ) adoption .
   furthermore , external support , uncertainty and insecurity , and
   organizational readiness are also identified to affect bda adoption . the
   findings ascertain the impact of bda on the financial performance and
   marketing performance of the organizations . understanding the variables
   that affect bda acceptability enables managers to take the appropriate steps
   for a successful deployment . the research aids bda service providers in
   luring and spreading bda in the food sector
DE adoption; big data analytics; food industries; organizational performance;
   technologicalorganizationalenvironmental model

---

UT 291
AR Siddique A, 2025, NPJ SCI FOOD, V9, DOI 10.1038/s41538-025-00394-y
TI Big data analytics in food industry: a state-of-the-art literature review
AU Siddique A; Gupta A/3; Sawyer JT; Huang T-S; Morey A
TC 21
SO NPJ SCI FOOD
PY 2025
AB the food industry has experienced rapid growth over the past two decades ,
   driven by technological advancements that have generated vast quantities of
   complex data . however , the industry s ability to effectively analyze and
   leverage this data remains limited due to the lack of control over diverse
   variables . this review addresses a critical gap by exploring how ai ml
   based approaches can be applied to solve key challenges in the food sector

---

UT 292
AR Zhang J, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT APPL ICCA - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ICCA66035.2025.11430789
TI A Review of AI Model-Based Food Image Recognition Research
AU Zhang J
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT APPL ICCA - PROC
PY 2025
AB food image recognition is a key task in food computing with critical
   importance for applications such as nutrition monitoring . however , the
   wide diversity in food appearance and very subtle , fine grained differences
   make automatic recognition extremely challenging . this paper systematically
   reviews the research progress in this field , surveying current mainstream
   methods in terms of public datasets , feature representation , and the
   evolution of model approaches , and it compares the performance of
   traditional algorithms and deep models . results show that deep
   convolutional neural networks dramatically improve food recognition accuracy
   , but models remain inadequate under complex conditions such as fine grained
   distinctions and cross domain scenarios . finally , this paper summarizes
   several future research directions , including multimodal information fusion
   , more efficient fine grained recognition , few shot learning , and domain
   adaptation , to provide references for subsequent studies
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; fine grained classification;
   food image recognition; vision transformers
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; image
   classification; automatic recognition; convolutional neural network; deep
   learning; fine grained; fine grained classification; food computing; food
   image; food image recognition; model-based opc; vision transformer; image
   recognition

---

UT 293
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2024, COMPUT, V106, P2133, DOI 10.1007/s00607-023-01233-2
TI Link prediction in food heterogeneous graphs for personalised recipe
   recommendation based on user interactions and dietary restrictions
AU Morales-Garzón A; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 2
SO COMPUT
PY 2024
AB recipe data and user interactions and preferences have been widely studied
   in food computing , especially for the recipe recommendation task . one part
   of these works seeks to introduce healthy patterns while considering user
   preferences , known as healthy aware recommender systems . the major
   challenge here is to build systems capable of learning the complex structure
   of recipe data since they involve heterogeneous resources . internet sourced
   recipe collections may also have a representative amount of recipes that do
   not follow healthy guidelines , thus inhibiting the performance of health
   aware recommender systems . we propose a new method for recipe
   recommendation based on a link prediction algorithm that considers recipes ,
   their healthy features , and users . we train the model twice , once with
   the whole dataset and once with recipes following healthy guidelines . we
   follow three strategies for representing recipe data regarding healthy
   features . in general , training the model in recipe data that follows
   healthy guidelines achieves better results , especially when representing
   recipes with numeric nutrition recipe values . the author ( s ) , under
   exclusive license to springer verlag gmbh austria , part of springer nature
   2023 .
DE 05c90; food computing; graph neural network; heterogeneous graph; link
   prediction
ID forecasting; graph neural networks; nutrition; build systems; complexes
   structure; data interactions; food computing; graph neural networks;
   heterogeneous graph; link prediction; one parts; user interaction; user
   preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 294
AR Goel M, 2025, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P282, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW67478.2025.00040
TI A Multilingual Ontology and Knowledge Graph for Recipes
AU Goel M; Andres F
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2025
AB in recent years , the fusion of artificial intelligence and semantic web
   technologies has paved the way for innovative approaches to managing and
   utilizing information . with the growing demand for structured gastronomical
   data , there is a need for well defined ontologies that facilitate recipe
   organization , ingredient classification , nutritional insights , and
   personalized diet recommendations . this article presents a multilingual
   recipe ontology and knowledge graph , capturing critical relationships
   between ingredients , nutrition , cooking actions , and recipe planning .
   our ontology supports interoperability across different languages ( english
   , hindi , and japanese ) , facilitating ai applications such as ingredient
   substitution and personalized recommendations . the proposed knowledge graph
   leverages semantic web technologies to enhance structured data accessibility
   and machine readable representations , ultimately contributing to
   computational gastronomy and food informatics
DE food informatics; knowledge graph; multilingual data; ontology construction;
   recipe ontology
ID cooking; food chemistry; food ingredients; information use; knowledge graph;
   knowledge management; nutrition; semantic web; food informatic; informatics;
   knowledge graphs; multilingual data; multilingual ontologies; ontology
   construction; ontology graphs; ontologys; recipe ontology; semantic web
   technology; ontology

---

UT 295
AR Lawrynowicz A, 2023, K-CAP - PROC KNOWL CAPTURE CONF, P25, DOI
   10.1145/3587259.3627543
TI Fine-Grained and Complex Food Entity Recognition Benchmark for Ingredient
   Substitution
AU Lawrynowicz A; Wróblewska A; Kaliska A; Pawlowski M; Wiśniewski D; Sosnowski
   W; Dutkiewicz J
TC 4
SO K-CAP - PROC KNOWL CAPTURE CONF
PY 2023
AB food computing is currently fast growing into an innovative area of
   knowledge extraction . however , benchmarks for information extraction from
   semi structured data , especially when dealing with more complex relations ,
   are scarce in this domain . in this paper , we introduce a benchmark aimed
   at information extraction of complex entities to support ingredient
   substitution tasks . firstly , we present a new dataset called tasteset for
   fine grained recognition of food entities in culinary recipes . secondly ,
   we provide complex entity annotations for substitution on top of the fine
   grained entity mentions , which we carefully prepared . we share the dataset
   and the tasks to encourage progress on more in depth and complex information
   extraction from recipes
DE food computing; information extraction; named entity recognition;
   semistructured data
ID data mining; complex entities; complex information; depth information;
   entity recognition; fine grained; food computing; information extraction;
   knowledge extraction; named entity recognition; semistructured data;
   information retrieval

---

UT 296
AR Li G/2, 2021, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V1244 AISC, P417, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-53980-1_61
TI Risk analysis and early warning of food safety testing based on big data
AU Li G/2; Liu Q/1; Shang X/1
TC 2
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2021
AB with the development of the market economy , people s income is increasing ,
   and food health is becoming more and more important . especially in recent
   years , the frequent occurrence of food safety accidents has exacerbated
   people s attention to food safety . the inspection for food safety is mainly
   done by manpower , which is not only inefficient , but also has
   disadvantages such as long inspection cycle and one sided inspection data .
   with the development of internet information technology , cloud computing ,
   the internet of things and other emerging technologies have entered the
   market . the above technologies are combined by big data , which can
   effectively improve the effectiveness of food safety monitoring , and not
   only can provide detailed data for regulatory authorities , but also provide
   comprehensive data services to manufacturers , consumers , and third party
   supervisors . with the in depth development and maturity of related
   technologies , this model will definitely become a major development trend
   in the future . this study explores the risk characteristics of food safety
   from the perspective of big data through the study of big data related
   theories , and creates a food safety risk analysis and early warning
   framework based on operational data sources and big data technology as the
   core , so as to provides theoretical basis for applied research of relevant
   field in the future
DE big data; food safety; risk analysis
ID big data; commerce; computation theory; inspection; risk analysis; risk
   assessment; safety engineering; safety testing; data technologies;
   development trends; emerging technologies; inspection cycles; market
   economies; operational data; regulatory authorities; risk characteristics;
   food safety

---

UT 297
AR Kadari T, 2025, ICMHI - INT CONF MED HEAL INFORMATICS, P337, DOI
   10.1145/3761712.3761786
TI NutriDetect, AI Nutrition Companion, Simplifying One Meal at a Time
AU Kadari T; Maurya K; Sinha T
TC 0
SO ICMHI - INT CONF MED HEAL INFORMATICS
PY 2025
AB effective diet management and informed nutritional choices are crucial in
   addressing global health challenges such as obesity , diabetes , and
   cardiovascular disease . this research introduces nutridetect , a pioneering
   food recognition system designed to advance medical informatics through
   digital innovation . using deep learning techniques , including yolo and
   faster r cnn architectures , nutridetect enables accurate , real time food
   detection from smartphone images . it seamlessly integrates nutritional
   databases to estimate calorie content , meal tracking , empowering health
   seekers to make data driven dietary decisions for better nutrition and over
   all well being . to ensure robustness and cross cultural applicability , a
   diverse dataset was created by combining the uecfood dataset with the open
   images dataset [ oid ] , resulting in 55,000 annotated images across 345
   food categories . we have successfully classified japanese , thai , and
   vietnamese cuisines and are expanding to include more global dietary
   patterns . by bridging wearable sensor analytics , ai powered food
   recognition , and augmented reality interfaces , nutridetect sets a new
   benchmark in personalized nutritional tracking and digital healthcare
   interventions . preliminary evaluations highlight improved detection
   accuracy and re liability , demonstrating nutridetect s scalability and
   clinical integration potential , paving the way for transformative ai driven
   medical informatics solutions . the project code and dataset resources are
   publicly available at : 2025 copyright held by the owner / author ( s ) .
DE deep learning; faster r-cnn; food recognition; health informatics; nutrition
   tracking; yolov8
ID electronic health record; learning systems; medical informatics; mhealth;
   nutrition; wearable computers; wearable sensors; cardiovascular disease;
   deep learning; fast r-cnn; food recognition; global health; health
   informatics; medical informatics; nutrition tracking; recognition systems;
   yolov8; deep learning

---

UT 298
AR Orjuela-Garzón WA, 2025, DATA METADATA, V4, DOI 10.56294/dm2025572
TI Data ecosystem framework proposal to implement Food Informatics systems in
   agri-food chains; [Propuesta de un modelo de ecosistema de datos para la
   implementación de sistemas informáticos alimentarios en las cadenas
   agroalimentarias]
AU Orjuela-Garzón WA; Cárdenas-Roa H; Bustos-Vanegas D; Andrade-Navia JM
TC 0
SO DATA METADATA
PY 2025
AB agri food chains face permanent climate change , population growth , and
   water and input access challenges . these impact production , processing ,
   and marketing processes , making the capture , processing , and analysis of
   the data generated by each link more complex , isolated , and independent .
   extracting this information for intelligent analysis to allow the
   optimization of agri food chains based on data analytics is called food
   informatics . the study paradigm has given rise to the concept of data
   ecosystems in agri food chains . the aim of this study is to design a data
   ecosystem model for the implementation of food informatics systems in agri
   food chains . the prisma methodology was implemented for the identification
   , screening , eligibility , and inclusion of studies from the scopus and
   clarivate databases . a total of 26 records were included in the in depth
   analysis , identifying two data ecosystem types : those with integrated
   bidirectional views that facilitate link interoperability and others of an
   individual nature focused on one link . the proposed integrated data
   ecosystem model has as its core an etl in gcp for data issued in batches
   with a data catalog and data mesh type structure , which integrates a
   physical and a digital layer and data infrastructure for storage ,
   processing , visualization , curation , and interaction with the user
DE data management; decision support systems; integrated information system;
   value chain data

---

UT 299
AR Yoo H, 2021, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V929, P123, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-64769-8_10
TI AI-Based 3D Food Printing Using Standard Composite Materials
AU Yoo H; Park D
TC 12
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2021
AB 3d printing is one of the ways to advance the technology of the 4th
   industrial revolution . instead of making a casting tool for the desired
   product , it directly produces the product through 3d printing . 3d printing
   can produce customized products for each individual , so it is possible to
   construct a small smart factory . in particular , ai ( artificial
   intelligence ) technology learns and judges legal judgments , cancer
   diagnosis , appropriateness judgments and standards for food ingredients ,
   etc . that humans used to derive results . in the era of covid 19 , 3d food
   printing becomes an important turning point for non face to face business
   and personalized business . 3d food printing is a technology that enables
   direct production of small quantities using 3d digital design and
   personalized nutrition data . however , the current development stage of 3d
   food printing technology is only at the level of making a product with a
   simple form or only one material , and separate material processing is
   required to reach an appropriate level of print quality due to the printing
   characteristics of various food groups [ 1 ] . in addition , there are not
   enough structured data available for learning , and no prior development and
   indicators have been developed for standard composite materials that can be
   applied to various foods to reach printability . in this paper , we use ai
   machine learning to obtain adequate print quality in 3d food printing . we
   study supervised learning , unsupervised learning , and reinforcement
   learning of ai machine learning , and design algorithms . in ai machine
   learning unsupervised learning , conformity and non conformity are
   determined , and the result of the derived standard composite material value
   is applied to papers to evaluate printing adequacy . through ai machine
   learning reinforcement learning , print aptitude is evaluated through
   rheological analysis , and big data values of various food groups applied
   with standard composite materials are secured
DE 3d food printing; artificial intelligence; hydrocolloids; printability;
   rheology; standard composite materials

---

UT 300
AR Chen X/2, 2021, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P815, DOI 10.1145/3510858.3511394
TI Research on Visual Analysis Method of Food Safety Big Data Based on
   Artificial Intelligence
AU Chen X/2
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2021
AB in the background of today s big data era , the popularization of computer
   network and information technology helps us to understand and disseminate
   the hot information in the current society more quickly . by quickly
   understanding these hot issues , we can better supervise and prevent these
   problems in our life . in recent years , the problem of food safety appears
   frequently in our field of vision , which makes people have to regard food
   safety as a hot issue in today s social development . the state and relevant
   food safety supervision departments are also paying attention to the food
   safety problems . in order to better supervise food safety issues in this
   era of big data , this paper will analyze and study food safety issues with
   the help of popular technologies in the new era , such as artificial
   intelligence technology and big data technology , so as to formulate a new
   scheme to meet the needs of people in the new era for food safety
   supervision . through the research , it can be found that a series of
   methods proposed in this paper can effectively provide new ideas for food
   safety big data visual analysis research method based on artificial
   intelligence
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food safety; information technology
ID artificial intelligence; food safety; current; analysis method; computer
   information technology; computer network technology; food safety; safety
   issues; safety problems; safety supervision; social development; visual
   analysis; big data

---

UT 301
AR Li D, 2023, J WEB SEMANT, V75, DOI 10.1016/j.websem.2022.100743
TI Health-guided recipe recommendation over knowledge graphs
AU Li D; Zaki MJ; Chen C-H
TC 34
SO J WEB SEMANT
PY 2023
AB while the availability of large scale online recipe collections presents
   opportunities for health consumers to access a wide variety of recipes , it
   can be challenging for them to discover relevant recipes . whereas most
   recommender systems are designed to offer selections consistent with users
   past behavior , it remains an open problem to offer selections that can help
   users transition from one type of behavior to another , intentionally . in
   this paper , we introduce health guided recipe recommendation as a way to
   incrementally shift users toward healthier recipe options while respecting
   the preferences reflected in their past choices . introducing a knowledge
   graph ( kg ) into recommender systems as side information has attracted
   great interest , but its use in recipe recommendation has not been studied .
   to fill this gap , we consider the task of recipe recommendation over
   knowledge graphs . in particular , we jointly learn recipe representations
   via graph neural networks over two graphs extracted from a large scale food
   kg , which capture different semantic relationships , namely , user
   preferences and recipe healthiness , respectively . to integrate the
   nutritional aspects into recipe representations and the recommendation task
   , instead of simple fusion , we utilize a knowledge transfer scheme to
   enable the transfer of useful semantic information across the preferences
   and healthiness aspects . experimental results on two large real world
   recipe datasets showcase our model s ability to recommend tasty as well as
   healthy recipes to users
DE food computing; health; knowledge graphs; recipe recommendation
ID graph neural networks; graphic methods; knowledge graph; knowledge
   management; large dataset; recommender systems; semantics; food computing;
   graph neural networks; knowledge graphs; large-scales; learn+; recipe
   recommendation; semantic relationships; side information; two-graphs; user
   preferences; health

---

UT 302
AR Li M/3, 2024, ACM TRANS INTELL SYST TECHNOL, V15, DOI 10.1145/3643859
TI Boosting Healthiness Exposure in Category-Constrained Meal Recommendation
   Using Nutritional Standards
AU Li M/3; Li L/3; Tao X; Xie Z/2; Xie Q; Yuan J/1
TC 22
SO ACM TRANS INTELL SYST TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food computing , a newly emerging topic , is closely linked to human life
   through computational methodologies . meal recommendation , a food related
   study about human health , aims to provide users a meal with courses
   constrained from specific categories ( e . g . , appetizers , main dishes )
   that can be enjoyed as a service . historical interaction data , important
   user information , is often used by existing models to learn user
   preferences . however , if a user s preferences favor less healthy meals ,
   the model will follow that preference and make similar recommendations ,
   potentially negatively impacting the user s long term health . this
   emphasizes the necessity for health oriented and responsible meal
   recommendation systems . in this article , we propose a healthiness aware
   and category wise meal recommendation model called caterec , which boosts
   healthiness exposure by using nutritional standards as knowledge to guide
   the model training . two fundamental questions are raised and answered : ( 1
   ) how can the healthiness of meals be evaluated ? two well known nutritional
   standards from the world health organization and the united kingdom food
   standards agency are used to calculate the healthiness score of the meal . (
   2 ) how can the model training be guided in a health oriented manner ? we
   construct category wise personalization partial rankings and category wise
   healthiness partial rankings , and theoretically analyze that they meet the
   necessary properties and assumptions required to be trained by the maximum
   posterior estimator under bayesian probability . the data analysis confirms
   the existence of user preferences leaning toward less healthy meals in two
   public datasets . a comprehensive experiment demonstrates that our caterec
   effectively boosts healthiness exposure in terms of mean healthiness score
   and ranking exposure while being comparable to the state of the art model in
   terms of recommendation accuracy
DE additional key words and phrasesmeal recommendation; category-wise user
   preference; healthiness; partial ranking
ID additional key word and phrasesmeal recommendation; category-wise user
   preference; emerging topics; food computing; healthiness; healthy meals; key
   words; model training; partial rankings; user preferences; food ingredients

---

UT 303
AR Burbano-Pulles MR, 2026, APPL SCI, V16, DOI 10.3390/app16084027
TI Multivariate Integration of Functional and Compositional Transitions in
   Gluten-Free Composite Flours Based on Amaranthus caudatus and Lupinus
   mutabilis
AU Burbano-Pulles MR; Maldonado-Alvarado PG; Rojas-Porras SA; Sciarini LS;
   Samman NC; Lobo MO
TC 0
SO APPL SCI
PY 2026
AB the transition from starch dominated to protein enriched gluten free systems
   represents a critical step in improving the functional and nutritional
   quality of composite flours . this study investigated the effects of
   progressive substitution of amaranthus caudatus ( amaranth ) with lupinus
   mutabilis ( andean lupin ) on the physicochemical , rheological , and
   antioxidant properties of gluten free flour blends . a multimodal dataset
   comprising 33 variables across six measurement domains ( proximal
   composition , hydration properties , thermomechanical behavior , pasting
   profiles , particle size , and antioxidant activity ) was analyzed using an
   integrated framework combining univariate inference ( fdr adjusted p values
   ) , pca , multiple factor analysis ( mfa ) , and sparse partial least
   squares discriminant analysis ( spls da ) . results revealed that increasing
   lupin content ( 1040 % ) significantly increased protein and fiber levels
   while decreasing starch content , leading to higher water absorption
   capacity and reduced peak viscosity and setback . multivariate models showed
   that the protein / fiberstarch trade off was the principal axis of
   compositional differentiation ( pc1 , ~41 % variance ) , while pc2 captured
   rheological and antioxidant variability , with formulations containing
   higher proportions of amaranth exhibiting greater antioxidant activity . the
   spls da model achieved 72 % separation accuracy with moisture , protein ,
   water absorption , and torque parameters as top discriminants . these
   findings provide an evidence based framework for gluten free flour
   optimization using andean crops and highlight how statistical modeling can
   inform targeted formulation decisions . the approach is transferable to
   other compositional transitions in food systems , underscoring the utility
   of multivariate analytics in applied food research . the multivariate
   framework further suggests that intermediate substitution levels may offer
   an optimal balance between nutritional enrichment and rheological
   functionality
DE amaranthus caudatus; functional properties; gluten-free flour; lupinus
   mutabilis; mfa; multivariate analysis; protein-starch interaction; spls-da;
   thermo-mechanical behavior
ID antioxidants; crops; discriminant analysis; factor analysis; functional
   food; least squares approximations; nutrition; plants ( botany ); starch;
   water absorption; 22 azinobis ( 3 ethylbenzothiazoline 6 sulfonic acid );
   phenol derivative; starch; amaranthus caudatus; functional properties;
   gluten-free; gluten-free flour; lupinu mutabili; multi variate analysis;
   multiple factor analysis; partial least squares discriminant analyzes ( pls-
   da ); protein-starch interaction; sparse partial least square discriminant
   analyze; sparse partial least squares; thermo-mechanical behaviors; abts
   radical scavenging assay; amaranthus caudatus; antioxidant activity;
   antioxidant assay; article; carbohydrate analysis; dough; ecuador; ferric
   reducing antioxidant power; flour; gelatinization; gluten-free composite
   flour; hydrogen bond; integration; laser diffraction; lupin; lupinus
   mutabilis; moisture; nonhuman; nutritional assessment; nutritional value;
   particle size; principal component analysis; process optimization; protein
   content; torque; viscosity; water absorption; economic and social effects;
   multivariant analysis

---

UT 304
AR Li D, 2020, PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN, P1719, DOI
   10.1145/3394486.3403223
TI RECIPTOR: An Effective Pretrained Model for Recipe Representation Learning
AU Li D; Zaki MJ
TC 40
SO PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN
PY 2020
AB recipe representation plays an important role in food computing for
   perception , recognition , recommendation and other applications . learning
   pretrained recipe embeddings is a challenging task , as there is a lack of
   high quality annotated food datasets . in this paper , we provide a joint
   approach for learning effective pretrained recipe embeddings using both the
   ingredients and cooking instructions . we present reciptor , a novel set
   transformer based joint model to learn recipe representations , that
   preserves permutation invariance for the ingredient set and uses a novel
   knowledge graph ( kg ) derived triplet sampling approach to optimize the
   learned embeddings so that related recipes are closer in the latent semantic
   space . the embeddings are further jointly optimized by combining similarity
   among cooking instructions with a kg based triplet loss . we experimentally
   show that reciptor s recipe embeddings outperform state of the art baselines
   on two newly designed downstream classification tasks by a wide margin
DE food computing; food knowledge graph; recipe embedding; representation
   learning; set transformer
ID cooking; embeddings; knowledge representation; semantics; classification
   tasks; food computing; high quality; joint modeling; knowledge graphs;
   latent semantics; state of the art; data mining

---

UT 305
AR Yoshimaru N, 2023, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V225, P3948, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2023.10.390
TI Ingredient Embeddings Constructed by Biased Random Walk on Ingredient-
   Compound Graph
AU Yoshimaru N; Kusu K; Kimura Y; Hatano K
TC 2
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB with the recent popularity of food computing , there is a growing demand for
   research on creating ingredient embeddings by representation learning . the
   general purpose representation obtained from a latent space of food
   ingredients can aid in developing various applications related to food
   computing . existing methods create ingredient embeddings based on the
   ingredient compound graph , and the co occurrence in recipe data construct
   ingredient relationship . however , existing methods need help with the
   learning process for ingredient representation . when generating a path to
   input to the graph embedding model , the path disregards the co occurrence
   information in the recipe . this method treats high frequency and low
   frequency ingredients in the same way . hence , when using ingredient
   embeddings created with existing methods , the need for detailed recipe
   information may prevent accurate food ingredient recommendations based on
   the recipe ( food pairing recommendation , alternative ingredient
   recommendation ) . our study proposes a novel ingredient embedding method
   that can solve the abovementioned problems by constructing an ingredient
   compound network expressing a containment relationship between an ingredient
   and its chemical compounds . our experimental evaluation in the
   classification task of food ingredients indicated that our method
   outperforms existing methods , so our ingredient embeddings can express
   their features in the task
DE cheminformatics; food computing; ingredient embedding; ingredient-compound
   network
ID graph theory; biased random walk; cheminformatics; co-occurrence; compound
   graphs; embeddings; food computing; food ingredients; growing demand;
   ingredient embedding; ingredient-compound network; embeddings

---

UT 306
AR Jiang D, 2023, LECT NOTES DATA ENG COMMUN TECH, V172, P530, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-31860-3_55
TI Food Safety Big Data Classification Technology Based on BP Neural Network
AU Jiang D
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES DATA ENG COMMUN TECH
PY 2023
AB food safety is directly related to people s life safety and is the material
   basis of people s life . people have low tolerance and high attention to
   food safety events directly related to their own life safety . this paper
   discusses the structure of bp neural network and big data food supervision
   technology , analyzes the limitations of bp neural network and the problems
   existing in the application of food safety data , summarizes the network
   data classification method , and tests the recommended bp neural network
   algorithm model . the results show that algorithm b improves the problem
   that the score prediction accuracy of the traditional algorithm is not ideal
   under the sparse score matrix . compared with algorithm a , algorithm b has
   higher score prediction accuracy
DE big data classification technology; bp neural network; food safety; network
   data classification method
ID classification ( of information ); food safety; intelligent systems; neural
   networks; big data classification technology; bp neural networks;
   classification methods; classification technology; data classification; food
   safety; life safety; network data; network data classification method; big
   data

---

UT 307
AR Núñez-Carmona E, 2021, SENSORS, V21, DOI 10.3390/s21134266
TI Internet of food (Iof), tailor-made metal oxide gas sensors to support tea
   supply chain
AU Núñez-Carmona E; Abbatangelo M; Sberveglieri V
TC 20
SO SENSORS
PY 2021
AB tea is the second most consumed beverage , and its aroma , determined by
   volatile compounds ( vocs ) present in leaves or developed during the
   processing stages , has a great influence on the final quality . the goal of
   this study is to determine the volatilome of different types of tea to
   provide a competitive tool in terms of time and costs to recognize and
   enhance the quality of the product in the food chain . analyzed samples are
   representative of the three major types of tea : black , green , and white .
   vocs were studied in parallel with different technologies and methods : gas
   chromatography coupled with mass spectrometer and solid phase
   microextraction ( spme gc ms ) and a device called small sensor system , (
   s3 ) . s3 is made up of tailor made metal oxide gas sensors , whose
   operating principle is based on the variation of sensor resistance based on
   volatiloma exposure . the data obtained were processed through multivariate
   statistics , showing the full file of the pre established aim . from the
   results obtained , it is understood how supportive an innovative technology
   can be , remotely controllable supported by machine learning ( iof ) , aimed
   in the future at increasing food safety along the entire production chain ,
   as an early warning system for possible microbiological or chemical
   contamination
DE gc-ms; mox sensors; s3; tea; volatiloma
ID internet; odorants; oxides; solid phase microextraction; tea; volatile
   organic compounds; chemical contamination; gas detectors; metallic
   compounds; metals; multivariant analysis; supply chains; tea; volatile
   organic compounds; fragrance; oxide; volatile organic compound; competitive
   tools; early warning system; innovative technology; metal oxide gas-sensors;
   multivariate statistics; operating principles; solid phase microextraction;
   volatile compounds; internet; solid phase microextraction; tea; gas
   chromatography

---

UT 308
AR Ma S/1, 2025, INT TRANS OPER RES, DOI 10.1111/itor.70051
TI Impacts of fairness concerns on online food delivery service supply chain
AU Ma S/1; He Y; Gu R
TC 3
SO INT TRANS OPER RES
PY 2025
AB in the online food delivery industry , fairness concerns are always a key
   factor influencing the performance of restaurants and online food delivery
   platforms . this study focuses on a two tier online food delivery service
   supply chain , where the restaurant provides food and catering services ,
   and the platform offers food delivery services . the study explores four
   different scenarios : when neither the restaurant nor the platform is
   concerned about fairness , when only the restaurant is concerned when only
   the platform is concerned , and when both players are concerned about
   fairness . by analyzing these scenarios , the optimal strategies of supply
   chain members are derived . the research findings indicate that the
   restaurant s fairness concerns negatively affect food quality and catering
   services , while the platform s fairness concerns negatively affect big data
   marketing and food delivery services . furthermore , the study reveals that
   the platform s fairness concerns not only decrease its own utility but also
   weaken the utility of its partners . 2025 international federation of
   operational research societies .
DE differential game; fairness concern; food delivery; goodwill accumulation;
   service supply chain
ID delivery service; differential games; fairness concerns; food delivery;
   goodwill accumulation; key factors; optimal strategies; performance; service
   supply chains; two tiers; food industry

---

UT 309
AR Garbero A, 2021, TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG, V172, DOI
   10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121012
TI Harnessing the power of machine learning analytics to understand food
   systems dynamics across development projects
AU Garbero A; Carneiro B; Resce G
TC 17
SO TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG
PY 2021
AB advances in machine learning and big data research offer great potential for
   international development agencies to leverage the vast information
   generated from accountability mechanisms to gain new insights , providing
   analytics that can improve decision making . from a knowledge management
   perspective , project operational reports are crucial historical records as
   they tell the story of a project , compile data generated throughout the
   project cycle , discuss achievements of intended development objectives ,
   and provide learning that can inform future operations . taking the
   international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) as a case study ,
   this paper explores how machine learning can harness existing project data
   to uncover latent information about food systems dynamics , which is already
   present in documentation but has not yet been investigated . specifically ,
   we aim to provide evidence on the evolution of food system dimensions within
   ifad funded projects through the application of supervised text mining ,
   network analysis and lasso regression to project documents collected from
   hundreds of projects spanning the whole of ifad s investment portfolio in
   the 1981-2019 interval . findings show an increase in reporting against food
   system dimensions and consolidate the applicability of machine learning
   analytics to uncover historical trends about international agencies
   activities and accelerate knowledge generation around strategic themes
DE big data; development agencies; food systems; ifad; machine learning; text
   mining
ID data mining; decision making; international cooperation; investments;
   knowledge management; machine learning; agricultural development;
   development agencies; development project; food system; international fund
   for agricultural development; machine learning; power; system dimension;
   system dynamics; text mining; data mining; decision making; investment;
   machine learning; network analysis; regression analysis; big data

---

UT 310
AR Cao P, 2026, ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL, V22, DOI 10.1145/3787854
TI FoodHash: Context-Aware Proxy Interaction and Fusion for Food Image
   Retrieval
AU Cao P; Min W; Sheng G; Song Y/2; Yao T; Wang L/1; Jiang S
TC 0
SO ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL
PY 2026
AB vision based food image retrieval has garnered significant attention due to
   its potential for critical applications in dietary and health management .
   however , food images exhibit more complex feature distributions and lack
   the geometric regularity and structured patterns typically observed in
   general image retrieval tasks . this complexity poses a challenge for
   existing models to extract fine grained features and semantic information ,
   thereby compromising retrieval performance . to address this challenge , we
   propose foodhash , a context aware proxy interaction and fusion hashing
   method for food image retrieval . the method incorporates an
   aggregationinteractionpropagation ( aip ) module that facilitates contextual
   information exchange among patch tokens within the same feature map , guided
   by proxy tokens , thereby effectively capturing the intricate details of
   food images . furthermore , to leverage the rich semantic information in
   food images , a cross fusion module is introduced to efficiently integrate
   multi scale information and enhance feature representation . additionally ,
   we employ a novel loss function to optimize hash learning by ensuring
   consistency between hash codes and the semantic space , thereby enhancing
   the learning capability of hash coding . extensive experiments on three
   publicly available food datasets demonstrate that foodhash significantly
   surpasses existing models in retrieval performance . specifically , on the
   eth food 101 dataset , foodhash achieves improvements of 18.1 % , 6.7 % ,
   5.2 % , and 4.5 % over the suboptimal method ptlch for 16-bits , 32-bits ,
   48-bits , and 64-bits hash codes , respectively . the source code will be
   made publicly available upon publication of the article
DE deep hashing learning; food computing; food image retrieval; hash retrieval
ID artificial intelligence; codes ( symbols ); hash functions; human
   engineering; information dissemination; semantics; context-aware; critical
   applications; deep hashing learning; food computing; food image; food image
   retrieval; hash retrieval; retrieval performance; semantics information;
   vision based; image enhancement; image retrieval

---

UT 311
AR Min W, 2020, ACM COMPUT SURV, V52, DOI 10.1145/3329168
TI A survey on food computing
AU Min W; Jiang S; Liu L/4; Rui Y; Jain R
TC 325
SO ACM COMPUT SURV
PY 2020
AB food is essential for human life and it is fundamental to the human
   experience . food related study may support multifarious applications and
   services , such as guiding human behavior , improving human health , and
   understanding the culinary culture . with the rapid development of social
   networks , mobile networks , and internet of things ( iot ) , people
   commonly upload , share , and record food images , recipes , cooking videos
   , and food diaries , leading to large scale food data . large scale food
   data offers rich knowledge about food and can help tackle many central
   issues of human society . therefore , it is time to group several disparate
   issues related to food computing . food computing acquires and analyzes
   heterogenous food data from different sources for perception , recognition ,
   retrieval , recommendation , and monitoring of food . in food computing ,
   computational approaches are applied to address food related issues in
   medicine , biology , gastronomy , and agronomy . both large scale food data
   and recent breakthroughs in computer science are transforming the way we
   analyze food data . therefore , a series of works has been conducted in the
   food area , targeting different food oriented tasks and applications .
   however , there are very few systematic reviews that shape this area well
   and provide a comprehensive and in depth summary of current efforts or
   detail open problems in this area . in this article , we formalize food
   computing and present such a comprehensive overview of various emerging
   concepts , methods , and tasks . we summarize key challenges and future
   directions ahead for food computing . this is the first comprehensive survey
   that targets the study of computing technology for the food area and also
   offers a collection of research studies and technologies to benefit
   researchers and practitioners working in different food related fields
DE food computing; food perception; food recognition; food retrieval; health;
   monitoring; recipe analysis; recipe recommendation; survey
ID behavioral research; health; internet of things; metadata; food computing;
   food perception; food recognition; food retrieval; human behaviors; human
   lives; human understanding; large-scales; recipe analyze; recipe
   recommendation; surveys

---

UT 312
AR Akujuobi U, 2024, ARTIF INTELL REV, V57, DOI 10.1007/s10462-024-10834-y
TI Revisiting named entity recognition in food computing: enhancing performance
   and robustness
AU Akujuobi U; Liu S/2; Besold TR
TC 7
SO ARTIF INTELL REV
PY 2024
AB in the ever evolving domain of food computing , named entity recognition (
   ner ) presents transformative potential that extends far beyond mere word
   tagging in recipes . its implications encompass intelligent recipe
   recommendations , health analysis , and personalization . nevertheless ,
   existing ner models in food computing encounter challenges stemming from
   variations in recipe input standards , limited annotations , and dataset
   quality . this article addresses the specific problem of ingredient ner and
   introduces two innovative models : sinera , an efficient and robust model ,
   and sineras , a semi supervised variant that leverages a gaussian mixture
   model ( gmm ) to learn from untagged ingredient list entries . to mitigate
   issues associated with data quality and availability in food computing , we
   introduce the arti dataset , a diverse and comprehensive repository of
   ingredient lines . additionally , we identify and tackle a pervasive
   challenge spurious correlations between entity positions and predictions .
   to address this , we propose a set of data augmentation rules tailored for
   food ner . extensive evaluations conducted on the arti dataset and a revised
   tasteset dataset underscore the performance of our models . they outperform
   several state of the art benchmarks and rival the bert model while
   maintaining smaller parameter sizes and reduced training times
DE data augmentation; gaussian mixture model; named entity recognition; semi-
   supervised learning
ID learning algorithms; data augmentation; food computing; gaussian mixture
   model; innovative models; named entity recognition; performance;
   personalizations; recognition models; semi-supervised learning; specific
   problems; gaussian distribution

---

UT 313
AR Margaritis I, 2022, SUSTAIN, V14, DOI 10.3390/su14074035
TI Big Data Applications in Food Supply Chain Management: A Conceptual
   Framework
AU Margaritis I; Madas M; Vlachopoulou M
TC 20
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2022
AB the paper provides a systematic review and analysis of the current
   literature on big data ( bd ) applications in the context of food supply
   chain management ( fscm ) in order to categorize the state of the art
   research trends exploring the adoption and implementation of big data
   analytics ( bda ) across different segments of food supply chain ( fsc ) .
   the use of bda brings the digital transformation of fscs closer providing
   sustainable implications and added value to their operation . harnessing bd
   s potential is becoming more and more relevant in addressing the constantly
   evolving complexities in food systems . however , the field of bd
   applications in the fscm domain is severely fragmented and relatively '
   primitive ' . the present research is one of the earliest attempts to
   recognize and present a comprehensive analysis for the bd applications
   across different segments of fsc proposing a conceptual framework that
   illustrates the role of bd in a data driven fscm environment . for the
   purposes of our research , we adopted the systematic literature review ( slr
   ) method aiming at the identification of the dominant categories and themes
   within the research area . based on the slr findings , we propose a
   conceptual framework that captures the interconnection between fsc
   performance and bd applications by using the input process output ( ipo )
   model within a data driven fscm context . the main research contribution
   lies on the thematic classification of relevant research , the
   conceptualization of this fragmented field , the development of a conceptual
   framework , and the presentation of a future research agenda pertaining to
   bd applications in a data driven fscm context
DE big data analytics; big data and digital transformation; conceptual
   framework; food supply chain management; systematic literature review
ID conceptual framework; food supply; literature review; supply chain
   management

---

UT 314
AR Hassoun A, 2025, DISCOV FOOD, V5, DOI 10.1007/s44187-025-00639-5
TI Industry 4.0 technologies promote healthy and nutritious food
AU Hassoun A; Galanakis CM
TC 3
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2025
AB with the rise in diet related chronic diseases , such as obesity , type 2
   diabetes , and cardiovascular conditions , there is an urgent need for
   healthier and more personalized dietary solutions . however , current
   dietary interventions often fail to address inter individual variability ,
   requiring more personalized and technologically driven solutions to combat
   diet related diseases . the rapid advancement of industry 4.0 technologies
   is transforming the food sector by enhancing food quality , safety , and
   nutrition , promising to overcome relevant challenges . this review explores
   how artificial intelligence ( ai ) , 3d food printing , augmented reality (
   ar ) , big data analytics , and the internet of things ( iot ) are reshaping
   food science and nutrition . while ai enhances precision nutrition and
   personalized diets , 3d printing creates functional foods tailored to
   individual needs . ar and other immersive technologies improve consumer
   engagement , while iot and big data analytics optimize food monitoring and
   health interventions . despite their transformative potential , challenges
   such as affordabilityregulatory hurdles , and scalability must be addressed
   to ensure equitable adoption and maximize health benefits
DE 3d printing; artificial intelligence; augmented reality; big data; fourth
   industrial revolution; iot; personalized diet; precision nutrition; sdg 3;
   sustainability
ID advanced analytics; diseases; food safety; functional food; industry 40;
   internet of things; nutrition; sustainable development; 3d printing; 3d
   printing; chronic disease; data analytics; food nutrition; fourth industrial
   revolution; industrial revolutions; personalized diet; precision nutrition;
   sdg 3; artificial intelligence; big data

---

UT 315
AR Rostami A, 2020, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P4548, DOI
   10.1145/3394171.3414454
TI Multimedia Food Logger
AU Rostami A; Xu B; Jain R
TC 6
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2020
AB logging what we eat is important for individuals and the aggregated
   information in these logs are important for businesses as well as public
   health . food logging has received very little attention and has been mostly
   limited only to the recognition of food items ignoring context , situation ,
   and health variable completely . in this demo we let the audience interact
   with our multimedia food logger system which is described in the following .
   we also describe how this system captures the major food related information
   that could be used by all stakeholders in the food ecosystem . we will
   demonstrate the complete functionality of such a system in this demo
DE food computing; food log; multimedia journaling; personicle
ID aggregated information

---

UT 316
AR Wang X/4, 2026, IEEE TRANS CIRCUITS SYST VIDEO TECHNOL, DOI
   10.1109/TCSVT.2026.3668226
TI SyMFood: Synergistic Multi-Modal Prompting for Fine-Grained Zero-Shot Food
   Detection
AU Wang X/4; Min W; Liu S/4; Sheng G; Jiang S
TC 0
SO IEEE TRANS CIRCUITS SYST VIDEO TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB fine grained object detection in food computing is severely constrained by
   the vast diversity of food items and the high cost of data annotation .
   existing zero shot food detection ( zsfd ) methods attempt to solve this by
   leveraging semantic information , but they suffer from two critical
   bottlenecks : ( 1 ) a ' semantic dilemma ' ( sd ) where textual descriptions
   are too ambiguous to distinguish visually similar food categories , and ( 2
   ) an ' architectural bottleneck ' ( ab ) due to the granularity mismatch
   between high level semantics and low level visual features . in this article
   , we propose symfood ( synergistic multi modal framework for food
   generalization ) , a novel zsfd framework designed to systematically
   overcome these challenges . to resolve the sd , symfood employs a multi
   modal prompt system , which combines rich descriptions from large language
   models ( llms ) with unambiguous visual exemplars to provide precise
   semantic grounding . to break the ab , symfood introduces a ' refine then
   fuse ' architecture . this design first utilizes a context aware spatial
   channel refinement ( casc ) block to enhance visual features independently .
   subsequently , a progressive food knowledge fusion ( profus ) module
   performs bi directional , iterative co refinement between the enhanced
   visual features and multi modal prompts across all scales . extensive
   experiments across four challenging datasets , including food specific ( uec
   food 256 , fowa ) and general purpose ( pascal voc , ms coco ) benchmarks ,
   validate our approach . the proposed method outperforms baselines , yielding
   a notable 8.5 % improvement in harmonic mean on the fowa dataset in the
   genearl zsd ( gzsd ) setting
DE cross-modal fusion; food computing; food detection; zero-shot detection;
   zero-shot learning
ID iterative methods; knowledge management; learning systems; object detection;
   object recognition; semantics; cross-modal; cross-modal fusion; fine
   grained; food computing; food detection; multi-modal; objects detection;
   shot detection; visual feature; zero-shot detection; visual languages

---

UT 317
AR Trairatwong N, 2026, J DIGIT LANDSC ARCH, P729, DOI 10.14627/537770069
TI Geospatial Analytics of Food Miles from Bangkok's Peri-Urban Agricultural
   Landscape to Enhance Urban Food System Resilience
AU Trairatwong N; Davivongs V; Limthongsakul S
TC 0
SO J DIGIT LANDSC ARCH
PY 2026
AB rapid urbanization in southeast asia has weakened spatial linkages between
   peri urban food production and urban consumption . although food miles are
   widely used as environmental indicators , their application in spatial
   planning remains limited . this study operationalises the weighted average
   source distance ( wasd ) within a reproducible geospatial workflow to
   analyze distance quantity relationships in peri urban food distribution .
   using a 2024 post pandemic survey dataset from 48 farms and 261 vegetable
   flow routes in thawi watthana district , bangkok , the analysis reveals a
   distribution system characterized by long distance transport : 75 % of
   production occurs beyond a 30 km radius , accounting for 80 % of the overall
   wasd ( 38.5 km ) , despite the geographic proximity of production to urban
   demand . to support planning oriented interpretation , distribution flows
   are analytically structured into distance based categories representing near
   city ( 15 km ) , mid range ( 15-30 km ) , and metropolitan scale ( > 30 km )
   supply connections . this distance tiered spatial analysis demonstrates how
   transport intensity is unevenly concentrated across space and highlights
   structural mismatches between geographic proximity and prevailing
   distribution practices . validation in bangkok suggests that this geospatial
   framework can support spatial diagnosis of food system vulnerabilities in
   other rapidly urbanizing metropolitan regions . wichmann verlag , vde verlag
   gmbh berlin .
DE bangkok; food miles; geospatial analytics; peri-urban agriculture;
   resilience planning

---

UT 318
AR Thakur S, 2024, INT J FOOD SCI NUTR, V75, P227, DOI
   10.1080/09637486.2024.2303024
TI Designing and evaluating a Nutritional Assessment and Intervention Kiosk for
   mother-child dyad to combat double burden of malnutrition
AU Thakur S; Gauniyal M; Bhargava S; Joshi A/3; Chitme H; Singhal M
TC 4
SO INT J FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2024
AB the study protocol focuses on dbm , proposing a preventive strategy for
   mother child pairs that would be accessible , affordable , sustainable , and
   human centred . the aim is to guide the development of tools and
   technologies , passing through stages for gathering a process and presenting
   health data . the initial stage identifies the rules and models synthesizing
   existing digital interventions combating forms of malnourishment , followed
   by designing and developing a nutrition informatics intervention , i . e .
   naik . the last stage includes evaluation of the effectiveness and utility
   of naik . the system aims to address malnutrition by assessing different
   associated elements , with the participants . an sms system will provide
   follow up assistance . overall , this study is an amalgamation of technology
   , data collection , personalized interventions , growth monitoring , and
   education to address malnutrition effectively by promoting positive health
   behaviours within the community . so , a computerized health kiosk will help
   provide preventive strategies from the healthcare professional , especially
   in circumstances requiring immediate attention
DE double burden of malnutrition; growth monitoring; malnutrition;
   interventions; nutritional assessment and intervention kiosk; undernutrition
ID costs and cost analysis; delivery of health care; humans; malnutrition;
   mother-child relations; nutrition assessment; nutritional status; cost;
   health care delivery; human; malnutrition; mother-child relation;
   nutritional assessment; nutritional status

---

UT 319
AR Stirling E, 2021, PUBLIC HEAL NUTR, V24, P1193, DOI
   10.1017/S1368980020005248
TI Social media analytics in nutrition research: A rapid review of current
   usage in investigation of dietary behaviours
AU Stirling E; Willcox J; Ong K-L; Forsyth A
TC 18
SO PUBLIC HEAL NUTR
PY 2021
AB objective : social media analytics ( sma ) has a track record in business
   research . the utilization in nutrition research is unknown , despite social
   media being populated with real time eating behaviors . this rapid review
   aimed to explore the use of sma in nutrition research with the investigation
   of dietary behaviors . design : the review was conducted according to rapid
   review guidelines by who and the national collaborating center for methods
   and tools . five databases of peer reviewed , english language studies were
   searched using the keywords social media in combination with data analytics
   and food or nutrition and screened for those with general population health
   using sma on public domain , social media data between 2014 and 2020 .
   results : the review identified 34 studies involving sma in the
   investigation of dietary behaviors . nutrition topics included population
   nutrition health investigations , alcohol consumption , dieting and eating
   out of the home behaviors . all studies involved content analysis with
   evidence of surveillance and engagement . twitter was predominant with data
   sets in tens of millions . sma tools were observed in data discovery ,
   collection and preparation , but less so in data analysis . approximately ,
   a third of the studies involved interdisciplinary collaborations with health
   representation and only two studies involved nutrition disciplines . less
   than a quarter of studies obtained formal human ethics approval .
   conclusions : sma in nutrition research with the investigation of dietary
   behaviors is emerging , nevertheless , if consideration is taken with
   technological capabilities and ethical integrity , the future shows promise
   at a broad population census level and as a scoping tool or complementary ,
   triangulation instrument
DE dietary behavior; nutrition; social media; social media analytics;
   surveillance
ID alcohol drinking; diet; feeding behavior; humans; research design; social
   media; alcohol consumption; content analysis; data analysis; eating; english
   ( language ); ethics; human; nutrition; population health; practice
   guideline; review; social media; diet; drinking behavior; feeding behavior;
   methodology

---

UT 320
AR Chhikara P, 2024, PROC - IEEE WINTER CONF APPL COMPUT VIS WACV, P8169, DOI
   10.1109/WACV57701.2024.00800
TI FIRE: Food Image to REcipe generation
AU Chhikara P; Chaurasia D; Jiang Y/1; Masur O; Ilievski F
TC 36
SO PROC - IEEE WINTER CONF APPL COMPUT VIS WACV
PY 2024
AB food computing has emerged as a prominent multidisciplinary field of
   research in recent years . an ambitious goal of food computing is to develop
   end to end intelligent systems capable of autonomously producing recipe
   information for a food image . current image to recipe methods are retrieval
   based and their success depends heavily on the dataset size and diversity ,
   as well as the quality of learned embeddings . meanwhile , the emergence of
   powerful attention based vision and language models presents a promising
   avenue for accurate and generalizable recipe generation , which has yet to
   be extensively explored . this paper proposes fire , a novel multimodal
   methodology tailored to recipe generation in the food computing domain ,
   which generates the food title , ingredients , and cooking instructions
   based on input food images . fire leverages the blip model to generate
   titles , utilizes a vision transformer with a decoder for ingredient
   extraction , and employs the t5 model to generate recipes incorporating
   titles and ingredients as inputs . we showcase two practical applications
   that can benefit from integrating fire with large language model prompting :
   recipe customization to fit recipes to user preferences and recipe to code
   transformation to enable automated cooking processes . our experimental
   findings validate the efficacy of our proposed approach , underscoring its
   potential for future advancements and widespread adoption in food computing
DE applications; food science and nutrition
ID computational linguistics; cooking; fires; user interfaces; current image;
   dataset size; embeddings; end to end; food computing; food image; food
   nutrition; food science; language model; vision model; intelligent systems

---

UT 321
AR Kāle M, 2024, BALT J MOD COMP, V12, P50, DOI 10.22364/bjmc.2024.12.1.04
TI Development of A New Conceptual Framework for Better Understanding of the
   Food Consumer: An Interdisciplinary Big Data Approach
AU Kāle M
TC 2
SO BALT J MOD COMP
PY 2024
AB the author s motivation for this study is to create a new application of big
   data to food . while the amount of food data increases , many important
   topics have been studied within separate fields or too narrow disciplines ,
   due to the interdisciplinary nature of this type of data . the author is of
   the opinion that these drawbacks can be eliminated by analyzing food big
   data using computing methods and by taking interdisciplinary approach to
   develop research questions . the fact that computer science has a
   significant role in the analysis of food consumption data is evidenced by
   the development of a new field of science food computing , which is the
   framework of this study . since there are still many unresolved tasks in the
   collection and analysis of food related data , the use of social media and
   other type of big data is an important introduction . the author , by
   combining the methodological frameworks of cognitive , social and computer
   sciences , has developed several methods for using big data , based on the
   natural language processing and by applying the following methodologies : a
   ) sentiment analysis of affective reactions about food and multi sensory
   eating experience . b ) comparative analysis of different national cuisines
   , by applying the topic modeling methodology . and c ) bigram analysis to
   trace ways how food consumers talk about healthy food . results have been
   summarized in a new conceptual framework by illustrating its application in
   practice . in the course of application , several researches , have been
   conducted using various computer science methodologies . as a combination of
   theories and methodologies of social , cognitive , and computer sciences ,
   the new conceptual framework offers methods and a direction for studying
   food consumers . by using computer science methods in the analysis of big
   data and thus improving the understanding of food consumption , the author
   hopes to improve the efficiency of public health policies resulting in
   better public health and higher quality of life . 2024 university of latvia
DE big data; food computing; healthy food; interdisciplinarity; multisensory
   research; nlp; recipes; topic modeling

---

UT 322
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2025, MULTIMED SYST, V31, DOI 10.1007/s00530-025-01667-y
TI Adaptafood: an intelligent system to adapt recipes to specialised diets and
   healthy lifestyles
AU Morales-Garzón A; Gutiérrez-Batista K; Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 6
SO MULTIMED SYST
PY 2025
AB this paper presents adaptafood , a system to adapt recipes to specific
   dietary constraints . this is a common societal issue due to various dietary
   needs arising from medical conditions , allergies , or nutritional
   preferences . adaptafood provides recipe adaptations from two inputs : a
   recipe image ( a fine tuned image captioning model allows us to extract the
   ingredients ) or a recipe object ( we extract the ingredients from the
   recipe features ) . for the adaptation , we propose to use an attention
   based language sentence model based on bert to learn the semantics of the
   ingredients and , therefore , discover the hidden relations among them .
   specifically , we use them to perform two tasks : ( 1 ) align the food items
   from several sources to expand recipe information . ( 2 ) use the semantic
   features embedded in the representation vector to detect potential food
   substitutes for the ingredients . the results show that the model
   successfully learns domain specific knowledge after re training it to the
   food computing domain . combining this acquired knowledge with the adopted
   strategy for sentence representation and food replacement enables the
   generation of high quality recipe versions and dealing with the
   heterogeneity of different origin food data
DE food computing; healthy diet; heterogeneous sources; natural language
   processing; recipe adaptation; word embedding
ID food chemistry; embeddings; food computing; healthy diet; heterogeneous
   sources; language processing; learn+; natural language processing; natural
   languages; recipe adaptation; word embedding; food ingredients

---

UT 323
AR Perçin S, 2023, ENV SCI POLLUT RES, V30, P52304, DOI
   10.1007/s11356-023-26091-5
TI Identifying barriers to big data analytics adoption in circular agri-food
   supply chains: a case study in Turkey
AU Perçin S
TC 23
SO ENV SCI POLLUT RES
PY 2023
AB big data analytics ( bda ) , along with the resource efficiency and
   sustainability perspectives of a circular economy , supports the transition
   to circular agri food supply chains ( afscs ) , contributing to a country s
   achievement of the united nations sustainable development goals . however ,
   there is still limited research demonstrating the importance and awareness
   of bda implementation in circular afscs in developing countries . as a
   result of the barriers to bda adoption in these regions , circular afscs in
   developing countries are still in their infancies . this study sought to
   identify the barriers to bda adoption in circular afscs in turkey using a
   delphi based pythagorean fuzzy analytic hierarchy process . the proposed
   method removes the potential for bias and produces consensus among managers
   of companies in various afscs in turkey . the findings of this study show
   that the most impactful barriers to bda are technical , economic and social
   , followed by environmental and organizational . the most crucial sub
   barriers to bda adoption are ' lack of trust , privacy and security ' , '
   lack of financial resources ' and ' lack of skilled human resources ' . this
   research can guide industry managers and policymakers in the development of
   strategies for overcoming barriers to bda adoption in circular afscs in
   developing nations . 2023 , the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature .
DE agri-food supply chain ( afsc ); analytic hierarchy process ( ahp ); big
   data analytics ( bda ); circular economy; pythagorean fuzzy sets ( pfss )
ID data science; food supply; humans; industry; sustainable development;
   turkey; turkey; agroindustry; analytical hierarchy process; delphi analysis;
   food industry; fuzzy mathematics; recycling; supply chain management;
   sustainability; catering service; data science; human; industry; sustainable
   development; turkey ( bird )

---

UT 324
AR Aprahamian H, 2023, SN OPER RES FORUM, V4, DOI 10.1007/s43069-022-00185-1
TI Can Fast Food Eating Patterns Be Healthy?  An Optimization-Based Analysis of
   Popular US Fast-Food Chains
AU Aprahamian H; Butenko S; Hunt Z; Makovenko M; Martin C; Pardalos M; Talcott
   S
TC 0
SO SN OPER RES FORUM
PY 2023
AB this paper applies linear programming modeling to determine whether usda
   dietary guidelines can be satisfied by an optimal selection of items from
   the current menus of popular fast food chains . more specifically ,
   optimization models aiming to determine diets that minimize one of the three
   objectives ( calories from sugars , calories from fat , or sodium
   consumption ) , while satisfying the key usda dietary guidelines are
   proposed . the models are applied to the menu data of 44 popular fast food
   restaurants available via fast food nutrition database . a detailed study is
   performed for 13 age sex groups specified in usda guidelines . it is found
   that only one of the 44 restaurants was found acceptable for each of the 13
   age sex groups , and 10 restaurants were found acceptable for at least one
   group . moreover , removing only a small fraction of foods from the combined
   fast food menu including all the items from the 44 restaurants eliminates
   the possibility of designing an acceptable diet based on the remaining menu
   items . therefore , it is concluded that the available fast food options
   provide very limited opportunities for supporting healthy eating patterns
   that would satisfy the usda dietary guidelines . optimization methods are
   not only useful for determining the acceptability of a menu with respect to
   given guidelines , but can also be utilized toward developing better dietary
   guidelines and healthier menus
DE dietary guidelines; fast food; healthy diet; linear programming; nutrition
   informatics; the diet model

---

UT 325
AR Li J/7, 2021, ICMR - PROC INT CONF MULTIMED RETR, P173, DOI
   10.1145/3460426.3463618
TI Cross-modal image-recipe retrieval via intra- And inter-modality hybrid
   fusion
AU Li J/7; Sun J/2; Xu X/3; Yu W; Shen F
TC 19
SO ICMR - PROC INT CONF MULTIMED RETR
PY 2021
AB in recent years , the internet has stimulated the explosion of multimedia
   data . food related cooking videos , images , and recipes promote the rapid
   development of food computing . image recipe retrieval is an important sub
   task in the field of cross modal retrieval , which focuses on the
   measurement of the association between food image and recipe ( title ,
   ingredients , instructions ) . although the existing methods have proposed
   some feasible solutions to achieve the goal of image recipe retrieval ,
   there are still the following issues : 1 ) complex model structure and time
   consuming training process . 2 ) the lack of information interaction within
   modalities and information integration between images and recipes . to this
   end , we propose a novel lightweight framework namedintra and inter modality
   hybrid fusion ( imhf ) . our imhf model abandons a separate deep vision
   encoder and utilizes the transformer module to unify the visual and text
   features . in this way , valuable information from images and recipes can be
   condensed and the direct information interaction between the two modalities
   can be promoted . both the intra and inter modality fusion can be realized .
   extensive experiment results on the large scale benchmark dataset recipe1m
   demonstrate that our model imhf with a lightweight architecture is superior
   to the state of the art approaches
DE attention mechanism; fusion strategy; image-recipe retrieval; transformer
ID image fusion; large dataset; attention mechanisms; cooking videos; cross-
   modal; fusion strategies; hybrid fusions; image-recipe retrieval;
   information interaction; intermodality; multimedia data; transformer;
   cooking

---

UT 326
AR Biermann O, 2021, URBAN HEAL, V98, P69, DOI 10.1007/s11524-021-00562-x
TI Food, Big Data, and Decision-making: a Scoping Review—the 3-D Commission
AU Biermann O; Koya SF; Corkish C; Abdalla SM; Galea S
TC 11
SO URBAN HEAL
PY 2021
AB food is an important determinant of health , featuring prominently in the
   sustainable development goals . the term ' big data ' is seldom used in
   relation to food , partly because food data are scattered across different
   sectors . the increasing availability of food related data presents an
   opportunity to glean new insights on food and food systems . these insights
   may enhance the quality of products and services and improve decision making
   on optimizing food availability , all to the end of producing better health
   . yet , knowledge gaps remain about the unique opportunities and challenges
   linked to big data on food and their use in decision making . this scoping
   review explored the available literature linking food with big data and
   decision making , using the following research question : what is the
   current literature on data about food , and how are these data used in
   decision making ? we searched pubmed until 29 february 2020 and embase , web
   of sciences , and the cochrane database of systematic reviews until 8 march
   2020 . we included studies written in english and conducted narrative
   analyzes to identify relevant themes from included studies . sixteen studies
   fulfilled our eligibility criteria , including big data analyzes , modeling
   studies , and reviews . these studies described the added value of using big
   data and how evidence from big data had or can be used for decision making ,
   as well as challenges and opportunities for such use . the majority of the
   included studies examined the link between food and big data , while
   hypothesizing of how these insights could inform decision making , including
   policies , interventions , programs , and financing . there were only two
   examples wherein big data on food informed decision making directly . the
   review highlights several false dichotomies in how the subject is approached
   in the literature and the importance of context , both between and within
   countries , in shaping the availability and types of data that can be used
   as meaningful evidence to inform decision making . this review shows the
   paucity of research around the intersection of food , big data , and
   decision making , as well as the potential in using big data on food systems
   to the end of informing decisions to improve the health of populations .
   future research and decision making around health systems can benefit from
   examining the full spectrum of perspectives on the subject . future research
   and decision making around health systems can also employ the steadfast
   embrace of technology , which will potentially reduce disparities in big
   data availability , to the end of improving the health of populations . 2021
   , the new york academy of medicine .
DE big data; data; decision making; food
ID big data; data analysis; humans; sustainable development; systematic reviews
   as topic; article; big data; cochrane library; decision making; eligibility
   criteria; embase; financial management; food availability; human; medline;
   narrative; systematic review; web of science; data analysis; sustainable
   development

---

UT 327
AR Revesai Z, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2583 CCIS, P189, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-96262-2_13
TI NUTRINET: A Computationally Efficient Graph Neural Model for Interpretable
   Nutrient Interaction Analysis
AU Revesai Z; Kogeda OP
TC 1
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB nutritional interventions play a crucial role in preventing and managing
   numerous health conditions , with proper nutrient analysis being essential
   for effective healthcare delivery , especially in vulnerable populations .
   despite advances in computational methods , current approaches to nutrient
   analysis struggle to model complex interactions between nutrients and health
   outcomes while remaining accessible in diverse clinical settings . existing
   systems either priorities predictive performance at the expense of
   interpretability and efficiency or sacrifice accuracy for simpler models ,
   creating a significant barrier to clinical adoption in resource constrained
   environments . to address these challenges , we present nutrinet , a novel
   graph neural network that combines hierarchical nutrient graph
   representation , edge conditioned message passing , sparse attention
   mechanisms , and transparent prediction modules . through evaluations on
   three public datasets ( usda fooddata central , nhanes , and framingham
   heart study ) with an 80:20 train test split , nutrinet demonstrates
   superior predictive performance with lower mae ( 0.09 ) for nutrient
   prediction , higher auc ( 0.91 ) for deficiency risk assessment , and
   improved f1-score ( 0.85 ) for personalized recommendations compared to
   state of the art methods . notably , our model reduces energy consumption by
   up to 73 % compared to graph attention networks while providing high
   fidelity explanations that influenced clinical intervention decisions in 78
   % of test cases . these results establish nutrinet as an effective solution
   for computational nutrient analysis that balances performance ,
   interpretability , and accessibility for diverse healthcare settings ,
   particularly addressing the specific needs of vulnerable populations through
   contextually aware nutrient interaction pathways
DE computational efficiency; explainable ai; graph neural networks; green ai;
   nutritional informatics; sustainable computing
ID graph neural networks; green computing; nutrients; nutrition; risk
   assessment; statistical tests; computationally efficient; explainable ai;
   graph neural networks; green ai; informatics; interpretability; nutrient
   interactions; nutritional informatic; predictive performance; sustainable
   computing; computational efficiency

---

UT 328
AR Chapman J, 2025, AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG, P70, DOI
   10.1039/9781837679119-00070
TI Big Data in Food Safety and Security Applications and Examples in Food
   Authenticity, Adulteration, and Fraud
AU Chapman J; Hoffman LC; Cozzolino D
TC 1
SO AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG
PY 2025
AB the agile and modern assessment of food safety and security ( e . g .
   authenticity , contamination , fraud , provenance ) is achieved by the
   utilization of modern digital and sensing technologies . the utilization of
   digital and sensing technologies determines that large amounts of data are
   generated during the analysis of food to achieve its assessment . in this
   context , big data is defined as the rapid collection of complex data in
   large quantities during the analysis of foods . therefore , to implement an
   application , the data must be analyzed and interpreted using different data
   analytics tools including statistics and machine learning methods and
   techniques . this chapter presents the definition of big data , as well as
   examples of the utilization of digital and sensing technologies combined
   with data analytics to develop applications targeting food safety and
   security in the food supply and value chains . the royal society of
   chemistry 2025
ID big data; crime; food chemistry; food safety; food security; food supply;
   learning systems; complex data; digital technologies; food authenticity;
   food security; food safety; large amounts of data; safety and securities;
   safety applications; security application; sensing technology;
   authentication

---

UT 329
AR Sharma S/6, 2021, LOGIST, V5, DOI 10.3390/logistics5040066
TI Sustainable Innovations in the Food Industry through Artificial Intelligence
   and Big Data Analytics
AU Sharma S/6; Gahlawat VK; Rahul K; Mor RS; Malik M
TC 142
SO LOGIST
PY 2021
AB the agri food sector is an endless source of expansion for nourishing a vast
   population , but there is a considerable need to develop high standard
   procedures through intelligent and innovative technologies , such as
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and big data . this paper addresses the
   research concerning ai and big data analytics in the food industry ,
   including machine learning , artificial neural networks ( anns ) , and
   various algorithms . logistics , supply chain , marketing , and production
   patterns are covered along with food sub sector applications for artificial
   intelligence techniques . it is found that utilization of ai techniques and
   the intelligent optimization algorithm also leads to significant process and
   production management . thus , digital technologies are a boon for the food
   industry , where ai and big data have enabled us to achieve optimum results
   in realtime
DE agri-food; algorithms; artificial intelligence ( ai ); artificial neural
   networks ( ann ); big data; machine learning ( ml )

---

UT 330
AR Gopal J, 2024, TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM, V171, DOI 10.1016/j.trac.2023.117504
TI Handheld portable analytics for food fraud detection, the evolution of next-
   generation smartphone-based food sensors: The journey, the milestones, the
   challenges debarring the destination
AU Gopal J; Muthu M
TC 20
SO TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM
PY 2024
AB fraudulent methods and techniques of outwitting the public have gained
   prominence in this modern era . as much as technological inventions have
   increased , so much so have fraudulent techniques increased too . when it
   comes to foo d fraud has its own limitations , analytical visualization is
   the most reliable and authoritative tool . in this context , various
   analytical detectors have been used for food fraud detection . the following
   review focuses on highlighting what has been achieved through the use of
   portable hand held analytics in food fraud detection . the limitations and
   the challenges facing miniaturized analytical instruments have been put
   forth . the implementation of smartphone based sensors , to avoid the
   mandate of an additional device , whereby enabling the customers themselves
   to carry out the food authentication process , has been discussed under
   future perspective
DE food fraud; handheld analytics; smartphone sensors; spectroscopy
ID crime; edible oil; analytical instrument; food fraud; food sensors; fraud
   detection; handhelds; handhold analytic; method and technique; smart phones;
   smartphone sensor; technological inventions; alcoholic beverage; dairy
   product; fish product; food analysis; food authenticity; food contamination;
   food quality; food safety; fraud; fruit; gas chromatography; mass
   spectrometry; meat; medicinal plant; milk; nuclear magnetic resonance;
   organic food; polymerase chain reaction; poultry product; product
   parameters; restriction fragment length polymorphism; review; vegetable;
   smartphones

---

UT 331
AR Jiang S, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P29, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW61823.2024.00066
TI Food Computing for Nutrition and Health
AU Jiang S
TC 3
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2024
AB dietary intake is the main source of human nutrition and thus an important
   material foundation for maintaining human health . food computing applies
   computational approaches to intelligently obtain dietary categories ,
   ingredients , and nutrient intake from dietary data , and then provides
   dietary recommendations to users based on various dietary factors .
   therefore , it can achieve intelligent dietary management to assist in
   solving human health issues . for its significant impact on human health ,
   it has received more attention from both academia and industry , and has
   made rapid development , especially with the booming artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) . this talk will first introduce the definition , methods , tasks and
   applications of food computing . then we will discuss its various tasks ,
   ranging from vision based multi granularity food analysis , multimodal
   recipe analysis , food knowledge graph construction and dietary
   recommendation . finally , we will point out future research directions on
   food computing , such as large food language / multimodal models and the
   emerging interdisciplinary field ai4food from the synergy between ai and
   food science . we expect that this talk will provide the researchers with a
   more comprehensive understanding of the field , and provide perspectives for
   the next wave of development in this rapidly growing field
ID knowledge graph; nutrition; computational approach; definition method;
   dietary intakes; dietary management; food computing; health issues; health
   it; human health; human nutrition; vision based; synthetic foods

---

UT 332
AR Karabay A, 2025, SCI REP, V15, DOI 10.1038/s41598-025-95770-9
TI Improved food image recognition by leveraging deep learning and data-driven
   methods with an application to Central Asian Food Scene
AU Karabay A; Varol HA; Chan MY
TC 9
SO SCI REP
PY 2025
AB the burden of diet related diseases is high in central asia . in recent
   years , the field of food computing has gained prominence due to
   advancements in computer vision ( cv ) and the increasing use of smartphones
   and social media . these technologies provide promising potential in many
   applications by facilitating real time information retrieval from food
   images for efficient digital food journaling , smart restaurants , and
   supermarkets etc . yet , to develop a robust cv model for food information
   retrieval , a large scale high quality dataset is required . several food
   dataset have been developed covering western , mediterranean , chinese etc .
   cuisines . these dataset solve the simpler problem of food classification
   with single food item per image , which is not practical for real life
   scenarios , where meals typically consist of multiple food items . to
   address this gap , we developed a large scale high quality central asian
   food scenes dataset for food localization and detection . the dataset
   contains 21,306 images across 239 food categories , 69,856 instances . ed
   images . to evaluate the dataset , we performed the parametric experiments
   with the object detection models , with the best results achieved using
   yolov8xl ( map50 score of 0.677 )
ID algorithms; asia; deep learning; food; humans; image processing computer-
   assisted; algorithm; asia; deep learning; food; human; image processing;
   procedures

---

UT 333
AR Du L, 2022, FOOD MACH, V38, P82, DOI 10.13652/j.spjx.1003.5788.2022.60069
TI Research on the application of big data in food safety supervision risk
   early warning; [大数据在食品安全监管风险预警中的应用]
AU Du L; Wen S-J; Yuan G
TC 3
SO FOOD MACH
PY 2022
AB as an important part of modern food safety governance system , food safety
   risk early warning fully embodies the scientific principle of ' prevention
   first , risk management , whole process control and social co governance ' .
   this paper focuses on how to use effective data collection and data analysis
   strategies to achieve food safety risk early warning through monitoring ,
   analysis , evaluation and other ways , so as to support government
   supervision with a more scientific and accurate food risk data management
   and evaluation system . food and machinery 2024.all rights reserved .
DE big data; food safety; risk warning; safety supervision

---

UT 334
AR Tao Q, 2020, CHIN J FOOD HYG, V32, P223, DOI 10.13590/j.cjfh.2020.03.001
TI Strengthen the application research of big data in food safety;
   [加强大数据在食品安全中应用研究]
AU Tao Q; Cui X/1
TC 0
SO CHIN J FOOD HYG
PY 2020
AB food safety is essential to national economy and peoples livelihood . a good
   food safety system is extremely important for maintaining social stability
   and providing scientific data for government decision . big data provides a
   new approach to food safety . through the integration of the data in the
   whole industrial chain , it will greatly improve the data analysis ability
   and help in discovering the potential valuable information . it could
   provide scientific decision making suggestions for regulators , producers
   and consumers . it will provide a solution for timely warning of food safety
   incidents , the accurate traceability and accountability of food products .
   this paper will briefly introduce some existing big data platforms in food
   safety area . then , it will discuss the challenges such as multi sources
   data analysis , visualization and market mechanism . at the end of this
   paper , the future development trend of big data in food safety area is
   discussed . 2020 editorial office of chinese journal of food hygiene
DE big data; blockchain; food safety; traceability; warning

---

UT 335
AR Chauhan A/1, 2025, AI FUTUR SMART COOK, P183, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-4042-5.ch008
TI Food Safety Meets Automation: Smart Kitchens of the Future
AU Chauhan A/1; Tanwar G; Thakur Y; Verma V; Kashyap V
TC 0
SO AI FUTUR SMART COOK
PY 2025
AB the rapid advancement of technology is reshaping the food and hospitality
   industry , with automation and intelligent systems driving efficiency ,
   safety , and sustainability . smart kitchens integrate artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , robotics , the internet of things ( iot ) , and real
   time analytics to manage food preparation , storage , and service with
   precision . these systems ensure compliance with hygiene standards , control
   temperatures , prevent cross contamination , and manage allergens , thereby
   reduc ing human error while meeting regulatory requirements . predictive
   analytics and machine learning enable proactive risk detection , while
   resource optimization and energy efficiency reduce waste and support
   sustainability . yet challenges remain , including high costs , workforce
   adaptation , reliance on digital systems , and ethical issues concerning
   transparency and accountability . the future of food safety will depend on
   human machine collaboration , where automation secures consistency and chefs
   provide creativity and cultural value , together redefining trust and guest
   satisfaction
ID accident prevention; artificial intelligence; automation; food safety; food
   storage; internet of things; smart manufacturing; control temperatures;
   cross contamination; food industries; food preparation; food safety;
   foodservices; hospitality industry; human errors; real time analytics;
   regulatory requirements; predictive analytics; regulatory compliance

---

UT 336
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2022, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1602 CCIS, P306, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-08974-9_24
TI Contextual Sentence Embeddings for Obtaining Food Recipe Versions
AU Morales-Garzón A; Gómez-Romero J; Martín-Bautista MJ
TC 7
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2022
AB food and culinary activities related to cooking are present in our daily
   lives . the rise of food related data has led to the term food computing ,
   which refers to the study and development of computer systems to solve food
   related tasks . despite the large number of food computing systems focused
   on the collection , recommendation , retrieval , and creation of recipes ,
   very few have used existing recipes to get adapted versions for user
   requirements . in this work , we have developed a method for adapting
   recipes that suggests food options for substituting their ingredients based
   on food relations and text similarity . for this purpose , we employ
   different deep learning language models based on bert . these models
   incorporate attention mechanisms to extract contextual representations of
   foods using different strategies to build the word embeddings . we use them
   to conduct a semantic comparison task for detecting similar ingredients
   between the recipe ingredients and a food dataset . the results show that
   the method obtains high quality recipe versions , thanks to context data ,
   attention mechanisms , and the token representation strategy used for the
   foods
DE food computing; recipe adaptation; word embedding
ID cooking; deep learning; semantics; attention mechanisms; computing system;
   daily lives; embeddings; food computing; learning languages; recipe
   adaptation; text similarity; user requirements; word embedding; embeddings

---

UT 337
AR Melesse TY, 2022, IFAC-PAPERSONLINE, V55, P2743, DOI
   10.1016/j.ifacol.2022.10.134
TI Digital Twin for Inventory Planning of Fresh Produce
AU Melesse TY; Bollo M; Di Pasquale V; Riemma S
TC 21
SO IFAC-PAPERSONLINE
PY 2022
AB the management of perishable food inventory demands special attention .
   fruits quickly lose their freshness and perish if they are not consumed
   within a specified period . it is critical to develop a management tool
   based on the internet of things that can efficiently integrate all the
   dynamic data associated with various types of resources in real time along
   the supply chain . this research is part of a comprehensive supply chain
   framework developed to analyze food bank logistics supply chain interactions
   . the study will mainly focus on the use of historical time series data to
   create a digital twin that can anticipate future events . the digital twin
   framework was built based on the operational trend of the italian food bank
   to strengthen the decision support system related to the fresh food
   inventory . the sap analytics cloud was used to create a solution that would
   help the organization better satisfy consumer needs by reducing fruit waste
   in the inventory
DE digital twin; fruits; inventory planning; predictive forecast; time series
ID artificial intelligence; cloud analytics; decision support systems;
   information management; supply chains; time series; chain interactions;
   dynamic data; food banks; fresh produce; inventory planning; logistics
   supply chains; management tool; predictive forecast; real- time; times
   series; fruits

---

UT 338
AR Chen Z/4, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14162776
TI Food Image Recognition Based on Anti-Noise Learning and Covariance Feature
   Enhancement
AU Chen Z/4; Chen H/3; Wang J/8; Wang Y/7
TC 1
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB food image recognition is a key research area in food computing , with
   applications in dietary assessment , menu analysis , and nutrition
   monitoring . however , imaging devices and environmental factors introduce
   noise , limiting classification performance . to address this , we propose a
   food image recognition method based on anti noise learning and covariance
   feature enhancement . specifically , we design a noise adaptive recognition
   module ( narm ) , which incorporates noisy images during training and treats
   denoising as an auxiliary task to enhance noise invariance and recognition
   accuracy . to mitigate the adverse effects of noise and strengthen the
   representation of small eigenvalues , we introduce eigenvalue enhanced
   global covariance pooling ( egcp ) into narm . furthermore , we develop a
   weighted multi granularity fusion ( wmf ) method to improve feature
   extraction . combined with the progressive temperature aware feature
   distillation ( ptafd ) strategy , our approach optimizes model efficiency
   without adding overhead to the backbone . experimental results demonstrate
   that our model achieves state of the art performance on the eth food 101 and
   vireo food 172 datasets . specifically , it reaches a top 1 accuracy of
   92.57 % on eth food 101 , outperforming existing methods , and it also
   delivers strong results in top 5 on eth food 101 and both top 1 and top 5 on
   vireo food 172 . these findings confirmed the effectiveness and robustness
   of the proposed approach in real world food image recognition
DE anti-noise learning; co-variance feature enhancement; food recognition; food
   science and technology; knowledge distillation

---

UT 339
AR Ramanathan U, 2022, SUSTAIN, V14, DOI 10.3390/su142416614
TI Adapting Digital Technologies to Reduce Food Waste and Improve Operational
   Efficiency of a Frozen Food Company—The Case of Yumchop Foods in the UK
AU Ramanathan U; Ramanathan R; Adefisan A; Da Costa T; Cama-Moncunill X;
   Samriya G
TC 35
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2022
AB cold storage is an essential operation for many food products in cold supply
   chains . the main objective of this kind of storage is to preserve the food
   products for a certain period of time . however , often due to a lack of
   accurate technology , humidity and temperature in food storge are not
   monitored in real time , which will affect the food quality . at present ,
   the internet of things ( iot ) has become a very popular choice for
   businesses in food supply chains . this is mainly because of the easy
   availability of internet , which helps monitor and control the quality of
   food in storage and transport . in this paper , the experiences of adapting
   and testing iot sensors and big data technology for reducing food waste in a
   frozen food manufacturer in the uk are presented . the temperature and
   humidity monitoring within the operations of this ready to eat frozen meal
   company are also expected to maintain food quality and adhere to legal food
   safety requirements . our reflection of experience gained in the
   installation of the sensors , collecting the data to a cloud server , and
   conducting data analytics with the data are also described . during the
   implementation of the technology , the company was able to identify optimal
   and non optimal storage conditions for their food products and pre processed
   ingredients . this allowed the further development of an alert system and
   corrective action protocol assisted using the technology installed . results
   of the case study evidenced and reported a thorough real time monitoring
   system that was able to reduce food waste and assure product quality , which
   could be applied in different stages of the food supply chain . this case
   can influence several food businesses to start adapting technology in their
   routine operations to ensure food quality and safety
DE cold supply chain; food waste; iot technologies; read-to-eat meals;
   temperature control
ID food quality; food safety; food supply; food waste; installation; internet;
   monitoring system; supply chain management

---

UT 340
AR Chopra M, 2022, ARCH COMPUT METHODS ENG, V29, P865, DOI
   10.1007/s11831-021-09598-3
TI Recent Studies on Segmentation Techniques for Food Recognition: A Survey
AU Chopra M; Purwar A
TC 16
SO ARCH COMPUT METHODS ENG
PY 2022
AB food has a direct impact on an individual s life and is a significant area
   for the research community . computational techniques in food related
   computing are performed to address various food related issues in the field
   of agronomy , medicine , biology etc . in this paper , we present a
   comprehensive review of research exclusively on segmentation techniques used
   for food computing . this paper illustrates the viable segmentation
   techniques used for food image segmentation . it also provides a
   comprehensive review of the same . a relevant survey on 66 research papers
   has been done to provide different food image segmentation techniques . a
   comparative study among these techniques is also done based on different
   parameters like type of algorithm , segmentation technique , dataset , and
   accuracy . moreover , this paper focuses on research challenges in food
   recognition . also a framework has been proposed in this paper to overcome
   the problem of watershed and otsu algorithm . 2021 , cimne , barcelona ,
   spain .
ID surveys; comparative studies; computational technique; food computing; otsu
   algorithm; research challenges; research communities; research papers;
   segmentation techniques; image segmentation

---

UT 341
AR Kurtanjek Ž, 2024, FOOD TECHNOL BIOTECHNOL, V62, P102, DOI
   10.17113/ftb.62.01.24.8301
TI Causal Artificial Intelligence Models of Food Quality Data
AU Kurtanjek Ž
TC 8
SO FOOD TECHNOL BIOTECHNOL
PY 2024
AB research background . the aim of this study is to emphasize the importance
   of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and causality modeling of food quality and
   analysis with big data . ai with structural causal modeling ( scm ) , based
   on bayesian networks and deep learning , enables the integration of
   theoretical field knowledge in food technology with process production ,
   physicochemical analytics and consumer organoleptic assessments . food
   products have complex nature and data are highly dimensional , with
   intricate interrelations ( correlations ) that are difficult to relate to
   consumer sensory perception of food quality . standard regression modeling
   techniques such as multiple ordinary least squares ( ols ) and partial least
   squares ( pls ) are effectively applied for the prediction by linear
   interpolations of observed data under cross sectional stationary conditions
   . upgrading linear regression models by machine learning ( ml ) accounts for
   nonlinear relations and reveals functional patterns , but is prone to
   confounding and failed predictions under unobserved nonstationary conditions
   . confounding of data variables is the main obstacle to applications of the
   regression models in food innovations under previously untrained conditions
   . hence , this manuscript focuses on applying causal graphical models with
   bayesian networks to infer causal relationships and intervention effects
   between process variables and consumer sensory assessment of food quality .
   experimental approach . this study is based on the data available in the
   literature on the process of wheat bread baking quality , consumer sensory
   quality assessments of fermented milk products , and professional wine
   tasting data . the data for wheat baking quality were regularized by the
   least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( lasso elastic net ) .
   bayesian statistics was applied for the evaluation of the model joint
   probability function for inferring the network structure and parameters .
   the obtained scms are presented as directed acyclic graphs ( dag ) . d
   separation criteria were applied to block confounding effects in estimating
   direct and total causal effects of process variables and consumer perception
   on food quality . probability distributions of causal effects of the
   intervention of individual process variables on quality are presented as
   partial dependency plots determined by bayesian neural networks . in the
   case of wine quality causality , the total causal effects determined by scms
   are positively validated by the double machine learning ( dml ) algorithm .
   results and conclusions . the data set of 45 continuous variables
   corresponding to different chemical , physical and biochemical variables of
   wheat properties from seven croatian cultivars during two years of
   controlled cultivation were analyzed . lasso regularization of the data set
   yielded the ten key predictors , accounting for 98 % variance of the baking
   quality data . based on the key variables , the quality predictive random
   forest model with 75 % cross validation accuracy was derived . causal
   analysis between the quality and key predictors was based on the bayesian
   model shown as a dag graph . protein content shows the most important direct
   causal effect with the corresponding path coefficient of 0.71 , and thmm (
   total high molecular mass glutenin subunits ) content was an indirect
   because with a path coefficient of 0.42 , and protein total average causal
   effect ( ace ) was 0.65. the large data set of the quality of fermented milk
   products included binary consumer sensory data ( taste , odor , turbidity )
   , continuous physical variables ( temperature , fat , ph , color ) and three
   grade classes of products by consumer quality assessment . a random forest
   model was derived for the prediction of the quality classification with an
   out of bag ( oob ) error of 0.28 % . the bayesian network model predicts
   that the direct causes of the taste classification are temperature , color
   and fat content , while the direct causes of the quality classification are
   temperature , turbidity , odor and fat content . the key quality grade ace
   of temperature 0.04 grade/c and 0.3 quality grade / fat content were
   estimated . the temperature ace dependency shows a nonlinear type as
   negative saturation with the breaking point at 60 c , while for fat ace had
   a positive linear trend . causal quality analysis of red and white wine was
   based on the large data set of eleven continuous variables of physical and
   chemical properties and quality assessments classified in ten classes , from
   1 to 10. each classification was obtained in triplicate by a panel of
   professional wine tasters . a non structural double machine learning ( dml )
   algorithm was applied for total ace quality assessment . the alcohol content
   of red and white wine had the key positive ace relative factor of 0.35
   quality/ alcohol , while volatile acidity had the key negative ace of 0.2
   quality / acidity . the obtained ace predictions by the unstructured dml
   algorithm are in close agreement with the ace obtained by the structural scm
   . novelty and scientific contribution . novel methodologies and results for
   the application of causal artificial intelligence models in the analysis of
   consumer assessment of the quality of food products are presented . the
   application of bayesian network structural causal models ( scm ) enables the
   d separation of pronounced effects of confounding between parameters in
   noncausal regression models . based on the scm , inference of ace provides
   substantiated and validated research hypotheses for new products and support
   for decisions of potential interventions for improvement in product design ,
   new process introduction , process control , management and marketing . 2024
   , university of zagreb
DE ace; ai causality; bayesian network; food quality; intervention effects
ID bayesian networks; cultivation; deep learning; fermentation; learning
   systems; least squares approximations; neural networks; quality control;
   sensory perception; wine; artificial intelligence causality; average causal
   effect; bayesia n networks; causal modeling; consumer sensory; food quality;
   intelligence models; intervention effect; quality assessment; regression
   modeling; directed graphs

---

UT 342
AR [Anonymous], 2026, FOOD FEED RES, V53, P93, DOI 10.5937/ffr0-58161
TI EMERGING ROLE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND BIG DATA IN DRIVING SUSTAINABLE
   GROWTH IN THE GLOBAL FOOD INDUSTRY; [NOVA ULOGA VEŠTAČKE INTELIGENCIJE I
   VELIKIH PODATAKA U POMOĆU ODRŽIVOG RASTA U GLOBALNOJ PREHRAMBENOJ
   INDUSTRIJI]
TC 0
SO FOOD FEED RES
PY 2026
AB the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and big data is emerging
   as a transformative force in the global food industry , driving sustainable
   growth through enhanced efficiency , productivity , reducing waste ,
   improving resource management and decision making capabilities . recent
   advancements in ai and big data technologies , such as predictive analytics
   and machine learning , are revolutionizing agricultural practices by
   enabling precision farming , optimizing resource use and improving crop
   management systems . these technologies facilitate real time monitoring of
   crop health , yield predictions and disease detection , thereby addressing
   critical challenges such as food insecurity and waste reduction . the
   application of ai and big data in the food supply chain enhances
   traceability and transparency , which are essential for ensuring food safety
   and quality . these technologies have further accelerated the adoption of
   digital solutions in the food sector , highlighting the need for resilient
   supply chains capable of adapting to disruptions . as the food industry
   grapples with the dual pressures of climate change and a growing global
   population , the role of ai and big data in promoting sustainable practices
   becomes increasingly vital . in addition to agricultural applications , ai
   and big data are reshaping business models within the food industry by
   fostering innovative marketing strategies and personalized nutrition
   solutions . the convergence of these technologies not only supports
   environmental sustainability but also enhances economic viability , paving
   the way for a more sustainable food ecosystem . incorporating ai and big
   data into the global food industry fosters resilience against challenges
   such as climate change , resource scarcity and population growth . therefore
   , by facilitating more sustainable and efficient operations , these
   technologies are revolutionizing food production , processing , distribution
   and consumption , thereby aligning the industry with the principles of
   environmental stewardship and global food security , in accordance with
   global sustainability objectives . the author ( s ) 0000 . this open access
   article is licensed under the creative commons attribution 4.0 international
   license . to view a copy of this license , visit
DE artificial intelligence; big data; food industry; supply chain management;
   sustainable growth

---

UT 343
AR Ma P, 2024, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V64, P4059, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2022.2139217
TI Neural network in food analytics
AU Ma P; Zhang Z/5; Jia X/1; Peng X; Zhang Z/9; Tarwa K; Wei C-I; Liu F; Wang
   Q/3
TC 36
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2024
AB neural network ( i . e . deep learning , nn ) -based data analysis
   techniques have been listed as a pivotal opportunity to protect the
   integrity and safety of the global food supply chain and forecast $ 11.2
   billion in agriculture markets . as a general purpose data analytic tool ,
   nn has been applied in several areas of food science , such as food
   recognition , food supply chain security and omics analysis , and so on .
   therefore , given the rapid emergence of nn applications in food safety ,
   this review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the nn application
   in food analysis for the first time , focusing on domain specific
   applications in food analysis by introducing fundamental methodology ,
   reviewing recent and notable progress , and discussing challenges and
   potential pitfalls . nn demonstrated that it has a bright future through
   effective collaboration between food specialist and the broader community in
   the food field , for example , superiority in food recognition , sensory
   evaluation , pattern recognition of spectroscopy and chromatography .
   however , major challenges impeded nn extension including void in the food
   scientist friendly interface software package , incomprehensible model
   behavior , multi source heterogeneous data , and so on . the breakthrough
   from other fields proved nn has the potential to offer a revolution in the
   immediate future
DE analytical chemistry; deep learning; food analytics; machine intelligence;
   neural network
ID deep learning; food analysis; food safety; food supply; food technology;
   humans; neural networks computer; chromatography; food safety; food supply;
   neural networks; pattern recognition; supply chains; data analysis
   techniques; data analytic tools; deep learning; food analysis; food
   analytic; food science; food supply chain; machine intelligence; neural
   networks; supply chain security; agriculture; artificial intelligence;
   artificial neural network; catering service; chromatography; data analysis;
   deep learning; food analysis; food safety; nutritional science; pattern
   recognition; review; security; sensory evaluation; software; spectroscopy;
   deep learning; food handling; human; procedures; deep learning

---

UT 344
AR Cooper KM, 2020, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V86, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2019.103391
TI The ingredient co-occurrence network of packaged foods distributed in the
   United States
AU Cooper KM
TC 11
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2020
AB this work presents a novel , comprehensive ingredient co occurrence network
   of foods in the united states from the open food database . this network ,
   which contains over 69,000 ingredients and 2 million ingredient co
   occurrence relationships , provides a glimpse into the current use of common
   ingredients for food production and distribution in the united states .
   understanding food intake behaviors from this data driven perspective opens
   up new avenues for precision health and wellness , for example , in studies
   of obesity , eating disorders , food allergies , and nursing mothers . the
   results describe a co occurrence network with a highly connected core of
   ingredients found in food distributed in the united states , including salt
   ( 4.86 % of ingredients ) , sugar ( 3.63 % ) , water ( 3.58 % ) . further
   analysis of the most densely connected core of ingredients reveals a
   majority are added nutrients ( niacin , riboflavin ) or derived from corn ,
   soy , and wheat . our results suggest a preference for a small group of
   ingredients that are used frequently in packaged foods and highlight
   semantic challenges for aggregating ingredients from food products in a
   systematic way . this novel approach to analysis of data from freely
   available food databases can be used to enhance existing methods for
   modeling food composition at the ingredient level
DE co-occurrence network; food analysis; food composition; ingredient network;
   network analysis; nutrition informatics; open food database; packaged foods

---

UT 345
AR Buyrukoğlu G, 2024, PATHOG, V13, DOI 10.3390/pathogens13121134
TI Causal Mediation Analysis of Foodborne Salmonella Outbreaks in the United
   States: Serotypes and Food Vehicles
AU Buyrukoğlu G; Moreira J; Topalcengiz Z
TC 8
SO PATHOG
PY 2024
AB various salmonella serotypes have caused numerous foodborne outbreaks
   associated with food vehicles in different categories . this study provides
   evidence on the occurrence and inter relations between salmonella serotypes
   and the number of deaths mediated by the number of illnesses and
   hospitalizations . confirmed foodborne outbreaks of salmonella serotypes ( n
   = 2868 ) that occurred between 1998 and 2021 were obtained from the centers
   for disease control and prevention national outbreak reporting system .
   causal mediation analysis was performed based on 500 bootstrap samples . the
   serotypes and the interagency food safety analytics collaboration ( ifsac )
   food categories as confounding effects were considered as categorical
   variables . a total of 106 single salmonella serotypes were associated with
   foodborne outbreaks . foodborne outbreaks caused by salmonella serotypes
   resulted in 81,996 illnesses , 11,018 hospitalizations , and 115 deaths
   between 1998 and 2021 in the united states . the serotypes enteritidis ( 815
   outbreaks , 28.42 % ) , typhimurium ( 359 outbreaks , 12.52 % ) , and
   newport ( 220 outbreaks , 7.67 % ) accounted for almost half of salmonella
   linked outbreaks . poultry products , ' chickens ' , ' eggs ' , and ' turkey
   ' , were the leading ifsac food categories , accounting for 14.02 % of total
   outbreaks and 10.44 % of total deaths . certain serotypes had a significant
   effect on illness , hospitalization , and death counts . two serotypes ,
   heidelberg and saintpaul , and ' fruits ' as the food vehicle in ifsac
   categories had a significant direct effect on the number of illnesses ,
   hospitalizations , and deaths as outcomes of salmonella outbreaks ( p 0.05 )
   . there was strong evidence that illness and hospitalization counts played a
   key role in the pathway from serotype to death counts on foodborne outbreaks
   caused by salmonella based on causal mediation analysis . the findings of
   this study can help outbreak investigations and lead to prevention and
   control measures by providing insightful information about the frequencies
   of salmonella serotypes and the associated food vehicles causing foodborne
   diseases
DE foodborne illnesses; ifsac food categories; pathogens; serovar; surveillance
ID article; artificial intelligence; binomial distribution; bootstrapping;
   broiler; death toll; food poisoning; food safety; foodborne transmission;
   fruit; gallus gallus; hospitalization; human; immunization; machine
   learning; mediation analysis; mollusc; poultry product; response surface
   method; risk assessment; risk factor; salmonella; salmonella enterica
   serovar enteritidis; salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium; salmonella
   food poisoning; salmonellosis; seroprevalence; serotype; united states

---

UT 346
AR Kumar A, 2025, SAR QSAR ENV RES, V36, P421, DOI
   10.1080/1062936X.2025.2512387
TI First report on retention time prediction of pesticides and veterinary drugs
   in cow milk using read-across and intelligent consensus prediction: an
   alternative for hazard assessment employing food-informatics
AU Kumar A; Ojha PK
TC 1
SO SAR QSAR ENV RES
PY 2025
AB milk is one of the primary sources of food . pesticides and veterinary drugs
   are reaching directly or indirectly ( pesticides containing grass or other
   cattle foods ) into the milk of the cattle , which are serious health
   concerns to the animals , infants , babies , and humans . so , in silico
   approaches like qspr , read across , etc . , are used as an alternative (
   reduce time , cost , complex analytical process ) for calculating retention
   time ( rt ) . the present work involves the development of the first
   multiple pls based qsar models for the estimation of rt of pesticides ,
   veterinary drugs , and related chemical hazards in milk by strictly obeying
   the oecd principles . based on the results , the quality of the models is
   good enough . in the current work , it was observed that lipophilicity ,
   binding property , rotatable bonds , and reactivity are responsible for high
   rt while hydrophilicity , the presence of primary amines , aqueous
   solubility , and branching reduce the rt of the compounds . the established
   models were utilized to screen the ppdb database to justify its real world
   application . the present study will be vital in the food informatics area
   for the rt data gap filling and identification of hazardous chemicals in
   milk . thus , it will be helpful to maintain a healthier , safer , and eco
   friendly ecosystem
DE food informatics; milk; pesticides; read-across; retention time; veterinary
   drugs
ID animals; cattle; milk; pesticides; quantitative structure-activity
   relationship; veterinary drugs; binding energy; chemical contamination;
   dairy products; hazardous materials; pesticide; veterinary drug; cattles;
   cows milk; food informatic; hazard assessment; informatics; milk; read-
   across; retention time; retention time prediction; veterinary drugs; animal;
   bovine; chemistry; milk; quantitative structure-activity relation; chemical
   hazards

---

UT 347
AR Chen Z/3, 2024, INT CONF AGRO-GEOINFORMATICS AGRO-GEOINFORMATICS, DOI
   10.1109/Agro-Geoinformatics262780.2024.10661086
TI Agro-informatics for agrifood system digital transformation
AU Chen Z/3
TC 0
SO INT CONF AGRO-GEOINFORMATICS AGRO-GEOINFORMATICS
PY 2024
AB agri food systems serve as the bedrock and critical support for human
   society s prosperity and sustainability . however , the confluence of an
   ever growing population , climate change , and resource scarcity presents
   formidable challenges to these systems . simultaneously , the ongoing
   digital transformation is exerting profound impacts across various socio
   economic sectors . digital technologies , including geographic information
   systems ( gis ) , remote sensing , and artificial intelligence , hold
   immense promise for enhancing the productivity , profitability , and
   sustainability of agri food systems . moreover , they play a pivotal role in
   advancing the united nations 2030 sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
   as a specialized un agency dedicated to agri food systems , the food and
   agriculture organization ( fao ) has spearheaded numerous applications and
   innovations in agroinformatics technologies . in this paper , the author
   will delve into fao s projects and activities that leverage agro informatics
   to address the challenges posed by digital transformation in agrifood
   systems . additionally , the discussion will explore perspectives and
   highlight current hot topics related to geospatial applications within this
   crucial domain
DE agri-food systems; agro-informatics; artificial intelligence; digital
   transformation
ID agri-food system; agro-informatic; digital technologies; digital
   transformation; economic sectors; geographic information; human society;
   informatics; resource scarcity; socio-economics

---

UT 348
AR Rostami A, 2020, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P4416, DOI
   10.1145/3394171.3414691
TI Personal Food Model
AU Rostami A; Pandey V; Nag N; Wang V; Jain R
TC 19
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2020
AB food is central to life . food provides us with energy and foundational
   building blocks for our body and is also a major source of joy and new
   experiences . a significant part of the overall economy is related to food .
   food science , distribution , processing , and consumption have been
   addressed by different communities using silos of computational approaches .
   in this paper , we adopt a person centric multimedia and multimodal
   perspective on food computing and show how multimedia and food computing are
   synergistic and complementary . enjoying food is a truly multimedia
   experience involving sight , taste , smell , and even sound , that can be
   captured using a multimedia food logger . the biological response to food
   can be captured using multimodal data streams using available wearable
   devices . central to this approach is the personal food model . personal
   food model is the digitized representation of the food related
   characteristics of an individual . it is designed to be used in food
   recommendation systems to provide eating related recommendations that
   improve the user s quality of life . to model the food related
   characteristics of each person , it is essential to capture their food
   related enjoyment using a preferential personal food model and their
   biological response to food using their biological personal food model .
   inspired by the power of 3-dimensional color models for visual processing ,
   we introduce a 6-dimensional taste space for capturing culinary
   characteristics as well as personal preferences . we use event mining
   approaches to relate food with other life and biological events to build a
   predictive model that could also be used effectively in emerging food
   recommendation systems
DE event mining; food computing; food recommendation systems; personal food
   model; personal model; personicle; taste space
ID data streams; multimedia systems; recommender systems; biological response;
   building blockes; computational approach; digitized representation; multi-
   modal data streams; predictive modeling; visual-processing; wearable
   devices; predictive analytics

---

UT 349
AR Romero-Tapiador S, 2025, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V84, P1945, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-024-19161-4
TI Leveraging automatic personalised nutrition: food image recognition
   benchmark and dataset based on nutrition taxonomy
AU Romero-Tapiador S; Tolosana R; Morales A; Fierrez J; Vera-Rodriguez R;
   Espinosa-Salinas I; Freixer G; Carrillo de Santa Pau E; Ramírez de Molina A;
   Ortega-Garcia J
TC 11
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2025
AB maintaining a healthy lifestyle has become increasingly challenging in today
   s sedentary society marked by poor eating habits . to address this issue ,
   both national and international organizations have made numerous efforts to
   promote healthier diets and increased physical activity . however ,
   implementing these recommendations in daily life can be difficult , as they
   are often generic and not tailored to individuals . this study presents the
   ai4food nutritiondb database , the first nutrition database that
   incorporates food images and a nutrition taxonomy based on recommendations
   by national and international health authorities . the database offers a
   multi level categorization , comprising 6 nutritional levels , 19 main
   categories ( e . g . , ' meat ' ) , 73 subcategories ( e . g . , ' white
   meat ' ) , and 893 specific food products ( e . g . , ' chicken ' ) . the
   ai4food nutritiondb opens the doors to new food computing approaches in
   terms of food intake frequency , quality , and categorization . also , we
   present a standardized experimental protocol and benchmark including three
   tasks based on the nutrition taxonomy ( i . e . , category , subcategory ,
   and final product recognition ) . these resources are available to the
   research community , including our deep learning models trained on ai4food
   nutritiondb , which can serve as pre trained models , achieving accurate
   recognition results for challenging food image databases . all these
   resources are available in github
DE ai4food-nutritiondb; eating behavior; food computing; food recognition;
   nutrition database
ID database systems; deep learning; image recognition; meats; taxonomies;
   ai4food-nutritiondb; eating behavior; eating habits; food computing; food
   image; food recognition; healthy diet; healthy lifestyles; international
   organizations; nutrition database; nutrition

---

UT 350
AR Okamoto K, 2021, CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT, P17, DOI
   10.1145/3463947.3469236
TI Region-Based Food Calorie Estimation for Multiple-Dish Meals
AU Okamoto K; Adachi K; Yanai K
TC 6
SO CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT
PY 2021
AB one of the major tasks in food computing is vision based food calorie
   estimation . however , unfortunately , food image datasets annotated with
   calorie amounts are very hard to obtain . in fact , no large scale food
   datasets annotated with calorie amounts exits as long as we know . however ,
   we can see some web sites which provide photos of food set menus with only
   total calorie values . then , in this work , we crawl such data from the web
   and use them as training data of a vision based food calorie estimation
   model . to estimate calorie amounts of food items , the calorie values of
   each food item in meal photos should be known in general . however , they
   are not available in this setting . then , we propose a model employing food
   segmentation which can estimate calorie amounts of each food item from total
   calorie values of set meal photos . the experimental results showed that our
   region segmentation based calorie estimation model was able to estimate
   calorie amounts of individual food items roughly
DE food calorie estimation; food image; food region segmentation; uec-foodpix
   complete; uecfood
ID large dataset; calorie estimations; calorie value; estimation models; food
   calorie estimation; food image; food region segmentation; region
   segmentation; uec-foodpix complete; uecfood; vision based; image
   segmentation

---

UT 351
AR Gilal NU/1, 2025, VIS COMPUT, V41, P2691, DOI 10.1007/s00371-024-03560-7
TI Autocleandeepfood: auto-cleaning and data balancing transfer learning for
   regional gastronomy food computing
AU Gilal NU/1; Qaraqe M; Schneider J/1; Agus M
TC 2
SO VIS COMPUT
PY 2025
AB food computing has emerged as a promising research field , employing
   artificial intelligence , deep learning , and data science methodologies to
   enhance various stages of food production pipelines . to this end , the food
   computing community has compiled a variety of data sets and developed
   various deep learning architectures to perform automatic classification .
   however , automated food classification presents a significant challenge ,
   particularly when it comes to local and regional cuisines , which are often
   underrepresented in available public domain data sets . nevertheless ,
   obtaining high quality , well labeled , and well balanced real world labeled
   images is challenging since manual data curation requires significant human
   effort and is time consuming . in contrast , the web has a potentially
   unlimited source of food data but tapping into this resource has a good
   chance of corrupted and wrongly labeled images . in addition , the uneven
   distribution among food categories may lead to data imbalance problems . all
   these issues make it challenging to create clean data sets for food from web
   data . to address this issue , we present autocleandeepfood , a novel end to
   end food computing framework for regional gastronomy that contains the
   following components : ( i ) a fully automated pre processing pipeline for
   custom data sets creation related to specific regional gastronomy , ( ii ) a
   transfer learning based training paradigm to filter out noisy labels through
   loss ranking , incorporating a russian roulette probabilistic approach to
   mitigate data imbalance problems , and ( iii ) a method for deploying the
   resulting model on smartphones for real time inferences . we assess the
   performance of our framework on a real world noisy public domain data set ,
   eth food 101 , and two novel web collected datasets , mena 150 and pizza
   styles . we demonstrate the filtering capabilities of our proposed method
   through embedding visualization of the feature space using the t sne
   dimension reduction scheme . our filtering scheme is efficient and
   effectively improves accuracy in all cases , boosting performance by 0.96 ,
   0.71 , and 1.29 % on mena 150 , eth food 101 , and pizza styles ,
   respectively
DE auto-cleaning; data imbalance; food computing; mena food dataset; noisy
   labels; traditional cuisines; transfer learning; web-scrapping
ID classification ( of information ); pipeline processing systems; pipelines;
   auto-cleaning; data imbalance; dataset; food computing; mena food dataset;
   noisy labels; public domains; traditional cuisine; transfer learning; web-
   scrapping; deep learning

---

UT 352
AR Zhou P, 2023, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P8157, DOI
   10.1145/3581783.3612661
TI SeeDS: Semantic Separable Diffusion Synthesizer for Zero-shot Food Detection
AU Zhou P; Min W; Zhang Y/7; Song J/1; Jin Y/1; Jiang S
TC 17
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2023
AB food detection is becoming a fundamental task in food computing that
   supports various multimedia applications , including food recommendation and
   dietary monitoring . to deal with real world scenarios , food detection
   needs to localize and recognize novel food objects that are not seen during
   training , demanding zero shot detection ( zsd ) . however , the complexity
   of semantic attributes and intra class feature diversity poses challenges
   for zsd methods in distinguishing fine grained food classes . to tackle this
   , we propose the semantic separable diffusion synthesizer ( seeds )
   framework for zero shot food detection ( zsfd ) . seeds consists of two
   modules : a semantic separable synthesizing module ( s3m ) and a region
   feature denoising diffusion model ( rfddm ) . the s3m learns the
   disentangled semantic representation for complex food attributes from
   ingredients and cuisines , and synthesizes discriminative food features via
   enhanced semantic information . the rfddm utilizes a novel diffusion model
   to generate diversified region features and enhances zsfd via fine grained
   synthesized features . extensive experiments show the state of the art zsfd
   performance of our proposed method on two food datasets , zsfood and uecfood
   256 . moreover , seeds also maintains effectiveness on general zsd datasets
   , pascal voc and ms coco . the code and dataset can be found at
DE diffusion model; food computing; food detection; zero-shot detection; zero-
   shot learning
ID http; semantics; zero-shot learning; denoising; diffusion model; fine
   grained; food computing; food detection; multimedia applications; real-world
   scenario; region feature; shot detection; zero-shot detection; diffusion

---

UT 353
AR Lotfi S, 2023, J PAYAVARD SALAMAT, V17, P300
TI Design and Evaluation of the Nutrition Recommender Application for 1-5 Year
   Old Children based on Android
AU Lotfi S; Safdari R; Jafarian K
TC 0
SO J PAYAVARD SALAMAT
PY 2023
AB background and aim : nutrition recommender systems are one of the most
   prominent technologies in the field of nutrition informatics that help users
   to have a healthy diet . these systems are able to suggest the most
   appropriate foods and meal plans considering the child s physical condition
   . considering that children are the most vulnerable age group , one of the
   most important health goals in the early years of a child s life is
   achieving balanced and correct nutrition , and as a result this study was
   conducted with the aim of designing , creating and evaluating a children s
   nutrition recommendation system . materials and methods : this research was
   conducted in 2022 in three stages to assess the needs of the informational
   elements of the nutrition recommender application . first , in order to
   determine data capabilities of the program , data needs analysis has been
   done . following , based on the needs assessment , the application was
   designed and its final version was created . the application was created in
   the android studio environment and then its technical applicability was done
   using the nielsen questionnaire by 5 medical informatics and health
   information management experts . results : the required information
   capabilities of the program were determined and after the statistical
   analysis of the questionnaire , most of the items raised in it were deemed
   necessary by the experts participating in the research with a high
   percentage ( 90 % ) and were included in the application program . then the
   design and creation of the nutrition recommender application for children 1
   to 5 years old was done in the android studio programming environment .
   finally , the use of nielsen s exploratory evaluation questionnaire and its
   technical applicability were evaluated by experts . the average severity of
   the problems related to nielsen s ten principles was 1.3 , which is
   classified as minor problems . conclusion : using the nutrition recommender
   application will be a useful solution to increase parents awareness of the
   child s growth status in terms of age , height and head circumference . this
   program has improved nutritional health , improved mental health , and
   better growth of children and will play a significant role in preventing the
   occurrence of diseases by using appropriate nutritional recommendations
DE anthropometry; application; children; nutrition; nutrition recommender

---

UT 354
AR Chen K, 2021, E3S WEB CONF, V292, DOI 10.1051/e3sconf/202129202052
TI Discussion on the Design of Food Safety Subject Database Based on Big Data
   Testing
AU Chen K; Tao H; Yu J; Hao M; Yang H; Wang Y/5
TC 0
SO E3S WEB CONF
PY 2021
AB food safety is a matter of national importance , and it is important to
   establish and improve a whole process food safety supervision system with
   high standard . along with the advent of the era of big data , to achieve
   this goal requires not only the reform and optimization of the old
   regulatory approach needs to establish the idea of information based
   supervision , and actively apply big data technology to food safety testing
   . in this paper , we introduce the current situation of food safety in
   society , analyze the shortcomings of current food safety supervision and
   the challenges faced in the era of big data , discuss the feasibility of
   using big data for food safety testing with big data technology as the core
   , and give the design idea of establishing a corresponding food safety
   subject database . this paper takes food safety testing as the foothold and
   innovatively combines big data with food safety testing , with a view to
   providing reference for food safety regulatory authorities and promoting the
   healthy development of the food industry . the authors , published by edp
   sciences .

---

UT 355
AR Vijay J, 2025, EXPLOR TRANSFORM TECHNOL HEAL 60, P329, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-7210-4.ch012
TI Precision nutrition through nutritional informatics: Futuristic technologies
   for health advancement
AU Vijay J; Dey T; Shresta AA
TC 2
SO EXPLOR TRANSFORM TECHNOL HEAL 60
PY 2025
AB precision nutrition tailors dietary recommendations to prevent and manage
   diseases based on individual factors . it integrates healthcare 6.0
   technology , particularly nutrition informatics , which combines information
   , nutrition , and technology for personalized dietary recommendations in
   both community and clinical settings . this chapter explores key aspects of
   nutrition informatics , including data sources , dietary data collection
   techniques , digital tools , and advanced analytics for personalized
   recommendations . it also examines publicly available online health and
   nutrition databases that support customized dietary planning . emerging
   technologies are revolutionizing nutrition data collection , leveraging
   advanced analytics for comprehensive , individualized insights .
   additionally , the chapter discusses how precision nutrition aids disease
   management by identifying optimal dietary patterns and using data driven
   insights to promote healthier lifestyles . integrating nutrition informatics
   into precision nutrition offers a transformative approach to enhancing
   health outcomes

---

UT 356
AR Tu Y/1, 2023, IEEE COMPUT GRAPH APPL, V43, P36, DOI 10.1109/MCG.2023.3263960
TI An Interactive Knowledge and Learning Environment in Smart Foodsheds
AU Tu Y/1; Wang X; Qiu R; Shen H-W; Miller M; Rao J; Gao S; Huber PR; Hollander
   AD; Lange M; Garcia CR; Stubbs J
TC 9
SO IEEE COMPUT GRAPH APPL
PY 2023
AB the internet of food ( iof ) is an emerging field in smart foodsheds ,
   involving the creation of a knowledge graph ( kg ) about the environment ,
   agriculture , food , diet , and health . however , the heterogeneity and
   size of the kg present challenges for downstream tasks , such as information
   retrieval and interactive exploration . to address those challenges , we
   propose an interactive knowledge and learning environment ( ikle ) that
   integrates three programming and modeling languages to support multiple
   downstream tasks in the analysis pipeline . to make ikle easier to use , we
   have developed algorithms to automate the generation of each language . in
   addition , we collaborated with domain experts to design and develop a
   dataflow visualization system , which embeds the automatic language
   generations into components and allows users to build their analysis
   pipeline by dragging and connecting components of interest . we have
   demonstrated the effectiveness of ikle through three real world case studies
   in smart foodsheds
ID computer aided instruction; data flow analysis; data visualization; job
   analysis; knowledge graph; modeling languages; visualization; dataflow;
   domain experts; down-stream; interactive exploration; knowledge environment;
   knowledge graphs; learning environments; ontologys; task analysis;
   visualization system; algorithm; article; human; human experiment; language;
   learning environment; pipeline; pipelines

---

UT 357
AR Alj KS, 2025, INT CONF INNOV INTELL INFORMATICS COMPUT TECHNOL 3ICT, DOI
   10.1109/3ict68299.2025.11442087
TI A Focused Survey on Multimodal Recipe Extraction from Cooking Videos
AU Alj KS; Smith KS; Salih-Alj Y
TC 0
SO INT CONF INNOV INTELL INFORMATICS COMPUT TECHNOL 3ICT
PY 2025
AB the explosion of short form cooking videos on platforms such as tiktok ,
   youtube , and instagram presents new challenges for extracting structured
   culinary knowledge . these videos are fast paced , informal , and highly
   multimodal , blending visuals , speech , ambient audio , and overlaid text
   in unstructured and asynchronous ways . existing surveys in food computing
   primarily address static images or written recipes , offering limited
   guidance for video centric multimodal extraction . to address this gap ,
   this survey presents a focused review of recent advances in multimodal
   artificial intelligence techniques for extracting recipes from social media
   cooking videos . methodologically , this work proposes a modular taxonomy
   encompassing five core stages : video segmentation , modality specific
   feature extraction , cross modal alignment , instruction generation , and
   structured output formatting . using this framework , representative models
   , including vision language transformers , audio aware encoders , and cross
   modal fusion networks , are analyzed in terms of accuracy , scalability ,
   and robustness . benchmark datasets are also compared along dimensions of
   modality coverage , annotation richness , and cultural inclusivity . the
   findings identify key research challenges , including noisy input handling ,
   cultural adaptation , and ethical concerns . hence , this work lays the
   groundwork for future research on multimodal recipe extraction and its
   deployment in intelligent food computing systems , such as dietary tools ,
   kitchen assistants , and content aware search engines
DE audio analysis; computer vision; cooking videos; dataset benchmarking; food
   computing; multi-modal ai; natural language processing; recipe extraction
ID artificial intelligence; benchmarking; big data; blending; cooking;
   extraction; multimedia systems; natural language processing systems; speech
   communication; video signal processing; visual languages; audio analysis;
   cooking videos; dataset benchmarking; food computing; language processing;
   multi-modal; multi-modal ai; natural language processing; natural languages;
   recipe extraction; computer vision

---

UT 358
AR Xiao J/1, 2026, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V47, P1, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20251011-046
TI Frontiers in the Intelligent Construction of Shelf-Stable and Efficacy-
   Enhanced Delivery Systems for Functional Foods Empowered by Big Data and
   Machine Learning; [大数据与机器学习赋能功能食品稳态增效递送 体系的智能化构建前沿进展]
AU Xiao J/1; Liu J/8; Wang Y/16; Li Y/11; Wang W/4
TC 1
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2026
AB active ingredients in functional foods often fail to exert their intended
   efficacy due to poor stability , low solubility , inadequate bioavailability
   , and limited health effects . shelf stable and efficacy enhanced delivery
   systems ( sseeds ) have emerged as a pivotal strategy to address these
   challenges by enabling precise delivery with high loading capacity ,
   stability , and potency through various approaches , including dispersion
   and solubilization , stabilization and encapsulation , targeted release
   control , absorption enhancement , and synergistic formulation . however ,
   traditional construction methods , relying on empirical trial and error ,
   suffer from low efficiency and poor predictability . this review summarizes
   recent advances in the application of big data and machine learning ( ml )
   for the intelligent construction of sseeds . it systematically explores
   their roles in functional component screening , carrier structure design ,
   release behavior prediction , and multiobjective process optimization .
   special emphasis is placed on case studies involving ml modeling for sseeds
   , prediction of release kinetics , and process regulation via bayesian
   optimization . the advantages of ml in improving encapsulation efficiency ,
   prolonging stability , and enhancing bioaccessibility are elucidated .
   finally , this paper identifies prevailing challenges including data
   fragmentation , limited model generalizability , empirical dependence , and
   the complexity of cross scale coupling , it also proposes integrating
   federated learning , transfer learning with few shot enhancement ,
   explainable ai , and digital twin technologies to address these challenges .
   this review aims to provide valuable technical insights and methodological
   guidance for the intelligent construction of sseeds for functional foods .
   2026 , chinese chamber of commerce
DE bayesian optimization; big data; functional foods; intelligent design;
   machine learning; release behavior prediction; shelf-stable and efficacy-
   enhanced delivery systems
ID barium compounds; bayesian networks; couplings; data encapsulation;
   efficiency; encapsulation; federated learning; forecasting; learning
   systems; machine learning; multi-objective optimization; process control;
   solubility; bayesian optimization; behavior prediction; delivery systems;
   functionals; intelligent constructions; intelligent designs; machine
   learning; release behavior prediction; release behaviors; shelf-stable and
   efficacy-enhanced delivery system; big data

---

UT 359
AR Li Y-F, 2021, IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON-TAIWAN ICCE-TW, DOI
   10.1109/ICCE-TW52618.2021.9603115
TI The Utilization of Big Data Analytics on Food Delivery Platforms in Taiwan:
   Taking Uber Eats and Foodpanda as an Example
AU Li Y-F; Tu S-T; Yan Y-N; Chen Y-C/1; Chou C-H
TC 2
SO IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON-TAIWAN ICCE-TW
PY 2021
AB by taking the advantage of internet development , e commerce has become more
   comprehensive and convenient . in 2020 , covid 19 gradually spread globally
   , and it has caused an unprecedented blow to the catering industries .
   nowadays , technologies have changed people s lives . as a result , more and
   more people prefer to choose food delivery service for their takeout meals .
   therefore , uber eats and foodpanda have gained new development
   opportunities . in this research , big data analytics was utilized to
   analyze the current online sentiment of uber eats and foodpanda in taiwan
DE big data analytics; food delivery service; foodpanda; uber eats
ID advanced analytics; data analytics; current; catering industries; delivery
   service; e- commerces; food delivery; food delivery service; foodpanda;
   internet development; ube eat; big data

---

UT 360
AR Chourasia S, 2025, IMPACT AI EVOL FUTUR GHOST KITCHENS, P15, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-0432-8.ch002
TI The Future of Indian Restaurants: The Role of Technology in the Success of
   Cloud Kitchens
AU Chourasia S; Kaur S; Singh A/3
TC 6
SO IMPACT AI EVOL FUTUR GHOST KITCHENS
PY 2025
AB the rapid evolution of the food service industry in india has given rise to
   the concept of cloud kitchens , also known as virtual kitchens or ghost
   kitchens . this research paper explores the theme of cloud kitchens as the
   future of indian restaurants , emphasizing the pivotal role of technology in
   their success . the study utilizes secondary data to analyze the growth
   trajectory , operational dynamics , and technological advancements that have
   facilitated the proliferation of cloud kitchens in india . the paper delves
   into the various technological innovations that have revolutionized the
   cloud kitchen model , including online food delivery platforms , data
   analytics , kitchen automation , and digital marketing strategies . by
   leveraging these technologies , cloud kitchens have been able to streamline
   operations , reduce overhead costs , and cater to the evolving demands of
   tech savvy consumers . additionally , the study examines the top cloud
   kitchen opportunities in india , highlighting key market players , emerging
   trends , and potential areas for growth
ID engineering education; food chemistry; food industry; food microbiology;
   food processing; food supply; service industry; data analytics; digital
   marketing; food delivery; food service industry; growth trajectories;
   marketing strategy; research papers; role of technologies; technological
   advancement; technological innovation; food storage

---

UT 361
AR Parcesepe M, 2023, QUAL QUANT, V57, P2269, DOI 10.1007/s11135-022-01459-w
TI Towards the automated evaluation of product packaging in the Food&Beverage
   sector through data science/machine learning methods
AU Parcesepe M; Forgione F; Ciampi CM; De Nisco Ciarcia G; Guerriero V;
   Iannotti M; Saviano L; Melisi ML; Rampone S
TC 6
SO QUAL QUANT
PY 2023
AB a main factor motivating consumer choice is the packaging : in many cases ,
   the consumer choices are prevalently based on it . actually , in planning
   the packaging of a new product on the market , due to the many variables
   that can influence the result , it is necessary to conduct a high number of
   preliminary analyzes . it is therefore desirable to develop an automated
   method that allows obtaining information and reduces the analysis time and
   cost . in this work , we propose the use of data science / machine learning
   methods to verify , but also to predict , the effectiveness of the packaging
   in the food and beverage sector . as proof of concept , after doing a public
   survey about some food and beverage packaging , we value the ability of a
   feedforward multi layer perceptron ( mlp ) artificial neural network , in
   predicting the results , i . e . if and how much the consumer likes the
   packaging . trained mlp shows a very high correlations coefficient ( > 0.98
   ) and low mean square error ( 7.97 ) and error percentage ( 5.76 % ) values
   in determining the consumer response
DE artificial neural networks; consumer satisfaction; data science; food and
   beverage; machine learning; packaging; survey

---

UT 362
AR Hossain T, 2024, PROC - INT CONF FUTUR INTERNET THINGS CLOUD FICLOUD, P354,
   DOI 10.1109/FiCloud62933.2024.00061
TI Optimizing Warehouse Operations in Bangladesh: Leveraging IoT and Cloud
   Migration for Enhanced Security and Efficiency
AU Hossain T; Hossain R; Islam R; Alam SB
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF FUTUR INTERNET THINGS CLOUD FICLOUD
PY 2024
AB the traditional warehouse management systems ( wms ) face challenges in
   providing accurate insights into the lifespan of perishable items such as
   fruits . this deficiency hampers the ability to efficiently manage inventory
   turnover and minimize food wastage . in this paper , we examine the
   limitations of traditional wms and the lack of analytics regarding food
   waste . to address these issues , we utilize internet of things ( iot ) ,
   encryption and cloud based wms solutions , specifically the amazon web
   services ( aws ) cloud platform . this study focuses on exploring the
   potential of encrypted iot data and cloud computing in automating warehouse
   supply chain management and ensuring additional layers of security while
   data is being transferred and stored over cloud . through experiments and
   analysis , we aim to obtain valuable insights into the lifespan of fruits
   within the context of a iot cloud based wms . by adopting cloud services ,
   we automate and streamline the data collection processes , enabling real
   time visualization of warehouse operations . additionally , the cloud
   infrastructure facilitates seamless connectivity between different
   components of the warehouse system , allowing for efficient information
   exchange and improved overall operational efficiency and security . by
   integrating the cloud services into iot based encryption and data collection
   , we address the limitations of traditional systems . we use cloud based
   services to gather and analyze real time data on factors such as gas
   emission , temperature , humidity , and handling conditions . this data
   driven approach enables proactive decision making , optimizing inventory
   management and minimizing food waste
DE amazon web services ( aws ); analytics; encryption; food waste reduction;
   inventory management; iot-cloud based wms; traditional warehouse management
   system ( wms )
ID cloud security; network security; supply chain management; waste management;
   amazon web service; amazon web services; analytic; cloud-based; food waste;
   food waste reduction; internet of thing-cloud based warehouse management
   system; inventory management; traditional warehouse management system;
   warehouse management systems; waste reduction; cloud platforms

---

UT 363
AR Cooper K, 2022, SUSTAIN, V14, DOI 10.3390/su14042075
TI Exploring Consumer Perceptions of the Value Proposition Embedded in Vegan
   Food Products Using Text Analytics
AU Cooper K; Dedehayir O; Riverola C; Harrington S; Alpert E
TC 31
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2022
AB given the increasing interest in sustainable food consumption and production
   , this study aims to understand how consumers perceive the value proposition
   of vegan food . over 120,000 tweets relating to veganism were extracted from
   twitter , which were then analyzed using the text analytics tool leximancer
   to ascertain the predominant themes of conversation taking place around
   vegan food . our results show that , in light of the three main drivers for
   vegan food choice ethical , personal health , and environmental surprisingly
   , we see a limited number of environmental or sustainability motivated
   tweets . this is a significant finding , as , while vegan food consumption
   is reported to be sustainable , this is not a preferred topic of
   conversation for consumers . value propositions communicated with respect to
   personal health attributes ( e . g . , dairy free , gluten free , and
   nutrition ) , and consumption benefits ( e . g . , tasty , delicious ) are
   more likely to resonate with consumers and motivate increased consumption
   while concurrently delivering environmental benefits as a positive side
   effect . furthermore , the polarity of the attitudes and conversations
   taking place between vegans and non vegans on twitter underscores that a
   single value proposition is unlikely to reach both groups simultaneously and
   that different value propositions are likely to be required to reach these
   respective groups
DE business; food choice; sustainability; text analytics; value proposition;
   vegan
ID consumption behavior; environmental conditions; food consumption; food
   product; sustainability

---

UT 364
AR Taneja A, 2023, AGRON, V13, DOI 10.3390/agronomy13051397
TI Artificial Intelligence: Implications for the Agri-Food Sector
AU Taneja A; Nair G; Joshi M; Sharma S/3; Sharma S/1; Jambrak AR; Roselló-Soto
   E; Barba FJ; Castagnini JM; Leksawasdi N; Phimolsiripol Y
TC 176
SO AGRON
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) involves the development of algorithms and
   computational models that enable machines to process and analyze large
   amounts of data , identify patterns and relationships , and make predictions
   or decisions based on that analysis . ai has become increasingly pervasive
   across a wide range of industries and sectors , with healthcare , finance ,
   transportation , manufacturing , retail , education , and agriculture are a
   few examples to mention . as ai technology continues to advance , it is
   expected to have an even greater impact on industries in the future . for
   instance , ai is being increasingly used in the agri food sector to improve
   productivity , efficiency , and sustainability . it has the potential to
   revolutionize the agri food sector in several ways , including but not
   limited to precision agriculture , crop monitoring , predictive analytics ,
   supply chain optimization , food processing , quality control , personalized
   nutrition , and food safety . this review emphasizes how recent developments
   in ai technology have transformed the agri food sector by improving
   efficiency , reducing waste , and enhancing food safety and quality ,
   providing particular examples . furthermore , the challenges , limitations ,
   and future prospects of ai in the field of food and agriculture are
   summarized
DE food quality; food safety; internet of things; machine learning; smart
   farming; sustainable management

---

UT 365
AR Min W-Q, 2022, JISUANJI XUEBAO, V45, P542, DOI 10.11897/SP.J.1016.2022.00542
TI A Survey on Food Image Recognition; [食品图像识别方法综述]
AU Min W-Q; Liu L-H; Liu Y-X; Luo M-J; Jiang S-Q
TC 11
SO JISUANJI XUEBAO
PY 2022
AB food is closely related to human behavior , health and culture . the big
   food data generated from ubiquitous networks ( e . g . , social networks ,
   mobile networks and the internet of things ) , and the rapid development of
   artificial intelligence , especially deep learning have brought a new
   multidisciplinary field called food computing . as one of the core tasks of
   food computing , food image recognition is an important branch of fine
   grained visual classification in the field of computer vision . therefore ,
   it has important theoretical research significance and wide applications ,
   such as smart health , food smart equipment , smart catering , smart retail
   and smart home . to this end , the paper proposes a comprehensive overview
   of food image recognition . this paper first classifies current food image
   recognition methods from different dimensions such as recognition objects ,
   visual feature representation and learning methods , and deeply elaborates
   and analyzes current research progress . the paper points out that deep
   learning models are current mainstream methods of food image recognition and
   integrating various contextual information and external knowledge is very
   helpful to improve the recognition performance . second , the paper
   introduces existing food image recognition datasets from different
   dimensions such as the scale of the dataset , food types , contextual
   information and multi modal information , and compares and analyzes the
   performance of different recognition methods on mainstream datasets . third
   , the paper summarizes the applications of food image recognition in many
   aspects such as diet quality evaluation , automatic checkout service , smart
   kitchenware , food image organization , retrieval and recommendation .
   finally , the paper summarizes and prospects future research directions of
   food image recognition such as food characteristic oriented image
   recognition and construction of large scale food image recognition
   benchmarks . 2022 , science press . all right reserved .
DE deep learning; dietary management; food computing; food image recognition
ID automation; behavioral research; deep learning; image analysis; image
   enhancement; intelligent buildings; ubiquitous computing; current;
   contextual information; deep learning; dietary management; food computing;
   food image; food image recognition; human cultures; performance; recognition
   methods; image recognition

---

UT 366
AR Tiozzo B, 2020, J MED INTERNET RES, V22, DOI 10.2196/23438
TI Biological, chemical, and nutritional food risks and food safety issues from
   Italian online information sources: Web monitoring, content analysis, and
   data visualization
AU Tiozzo B; Ruzza M; Rizzoli V; D'Este L; Giaretta M; Ravarotto L
TC 12
SO J MED INTERNET RES
PY 2020
AB background : with rapid evolution of the internet and web 2.0 apps , online
   sources have become one of the main channels for most people to seek food
   risk information . thus , it would be compelling to analyze the coverage of
   online information sources related to biological , chemical , and
   nutritional food risks , and related safety issues , to understand the type
   of content that online readers are exposed to , possibly influencing their
   perceptions . objective : the aim of this study was to identify the types of
   online sources that are predominantly covering this theme , and the topics
   that have received the most attention in terms of coverage and engagement on
   social media . methods : we performed an analysis of big data related to
   food risks by combining web monitoring techniques , content analysis , and
   data visualization of a large amount of unstructured text . using a
   dictionary based approach , a web monitoring app was instructed to
   automatically collect web content referring to the food risk and safety
   field . data were retrieved from march 2017 to february 2018 . the validated
   corpus ( n=12,163 ) was subject to automatic and manual content analysis .
   results were combined with descriptive statistics extracted from web live
   and processed with qlik sense . results : nutritional risks and news about
   outbreaks , controls , and alerts were the most widely covered topics .
   thematic sources devoted major attention to nutritional topics , whereas
   national sources covered food risks , especially during food emergencies .
   regarding engagement on social media , readers interest was higher for
   nutritional topics and animal welfare . although traditional sources still
   publish a great amount of content related to food risks and safety , new
   mediators have emerged as alternative sources for food risk information .
   conclusions : this mixed methodological approach was demonstrated to be a
   useful means for obtaining an accurate characterization of the online
   discourse on food risks , and can provide insight into how the monitored
   sources contribute to the process of risk communication . barbara tiozzo ,
   mirko ruzza , valentina rizzoli , laura d'este , mose giaretta , licia
   ravarotto . originally published in the journal of medical internet research
   , 14.12.2020.
DE big data; content analysis; data visualization; food risks; online
   information sources; risk communication; web monitoring
ID big data; communication; data visualization; food safety; humans; internet;
   italy; nutrition assessment; social media; surveys and questionnaires;
   animal welfare; article; attention; big data; content analysis; data
   visualization; food safety; human; major clinical study; social media; food
   safety; internet; interpersonal communication; italy; nutritional
   assessment; procedures; questionnaire

---

UT 367
AR Nakamoto K, 2022, PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED ASIA MMASIA, DOI
   10.1145/3551626.3564978
TI FoodLog Athl: Multimedia Food Recording Platform for Dietary Guidance and
   Food Monitoring
AU Nakamoto K; Kumazawa K; Karasawa H; Amano S; Yamakata Y; Aizawa K
TC 3
SO PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED ASIA MMASIA
PY 2022
AB this paper presents a new food recording tool , foodlog athl , for the
   healthcare or physical enhancement of its users . unlike existing food
   recording tools , we designed the system for dietitians or third parties who
   monitor the users . the tool not only supports the users by functions such
   as food image recognition , but also it helps the dietitians watch and
   communicate with users . furthermore , it calculates nutritional values from
   food records the use of the tool reduces the workload of dietitians and
   focuses their work on nutrition guidance
DE food computing; food image recognition; food logging; food record;
   multimedia; nutritional guidance
ID nutrition; wearable computers; food computing; food image; food image
   recognition; food logging; food record; multimedium; nutritional guidance;
   nutritional value; third parties; image recognition

---

UT 368
AR Song J, 2024, SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND, V45, P18, DOI
   10.13386/j.issn1002-0306.2024030027
TI Zero-Shot Food Image Detection Based on Transformer; [基于 Transformer
   的零样本食品图像检测]
AU Song J; Min W; Zhou P; Rao Q; Sheng G; Yang Y/6; Wang L/1; Jiang S
TC 0
SO SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND
PY 2024
AB as a fundamental task in food computing , food detection played a crucial
   role in locating and identifying food items from input images , particularly
   in applications such as intelligent canteen settlement and dietary health
   management . however , food categories were constantly updating in practical
   scenarios , making it difficult for food detectors trained on fixed
   categories to accurately detect previously unseen food categories . to
   address this issue , this paper proposed a zero shot food image detection
   method . firstly , a transformer based food primitive generator was
   constructed , where each primitive contained fine grained attributes
   relevant to food categories . these primitives could be selectively
   assembled based on the food characteristics to synthesize new food features
   . secondly , an enhancement component of visual feature disentanglement was
   proposed in order to impose more constraints on the visual features of
   unseen food categories . the visual features of food images were decomposed
   into semantically related features and semantically unrelated features ,
   thereby better transferring semantic knowledge of food categories to their
   visual features . the proposed method was extensively evaluated on the
   zsfood and uec food256 datasets through numerous experiments and ablation
   studies . under the zero shot detection ( zsd ) setting , optimal average
   precision on unseen classes reached 4.9 % and 24.1 % , respectively ,
   demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed approach . under the
   generalized zero shot detection ( gzsd ) setting , the harmonic mean of
   visible and unseen classes reaches 5.8 % and 22.0 % , respectively , further
   validating the effectiveness of the proposed method
DE deep learning; food image detection; generative models; transformer; zero-
   shot learning
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; deep learning; food computing; food
   detection; food image; food image detection; generative model; image
   detection; shot detection; transformer; visual feature; zero-shot learning

---

UT 369
AR Ahmadzadeh S, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su15043482
TI A Comprehensive Review on Food Waste Reduction Based on IoT and Big Data
   Technologies
AU Ahmadzadeh S; Ajmal T; Ramanathan R; Duan Y
TC 60
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB food waste reduction , as a major application area of the internet of things
   ( iot ) and big data technologies , has become one of the most pressing
   issues . in recent years , there has been an unprecedented increase in food
   waste , which has had a negative impact on economic growth in many countries
   . food waste has also caused serious environmental problems . agricultural
   production , post harvest handling , and storage , as well as food
   processing , distribution , and consumption , can all lead to food wastage .
   this wastage is primarily caused by inefficiencies in the food supply chain
   and a lack of information at each stage of the food cycle . in order to
   minimize such effects , the internet of things , big data based systems ,
   and various management models are used to reduce food waste in food supply
   chains . this paper provides a comprehensive review of iot and big data
   based food waste management models , algorithms , and technologies with the
   aim of improving resource efficiency and highlights the key challenges and
   opportunities for future research
DE big data; communication technologies; food waste reduction; iot sensors;
   supply chain
ID communication; dataset; economic growth; food waste; sensor; supply chain
   management; waste management

---

UT 370
AR Gere A, 2021, FOOD CHEM, V344, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.128617
TI Multicriteria decision making for evergreen problems in food science by sum
   of ranking differences
AU Gere A; Rácz A; Bajusz D; Héberger K
TC 25
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2021
AB finding optimal solutions usually requires multicriteria optimization . the
   sum of ranking differences ( srd ) algorithm can efficiently solve such
   problems . its principles and earlier applications will be discussed here ,
   along with meta analyses of papers published in various subfields of food
   science , such as analytics in food chemistry , food engineering , food
   technology , food microbiology , quality control , and sensory analysis .
   carefully selected real case studies give an overview of the wide range of
   applications for multicriteria optimizations , using a free , easy to use
   and validated method . results are presented and discussed in a way that
   helps scientists and practitioners , who are less familiar with
   multicriteria optimization , to integrate the method into their research
   projects . the utility of srd , optionally coupled with other statistical
   methods such as anova , is demonstrated on altogether twelve case studies ,
   covering diverse method comparison and data evaluation scenarios from
   various subfields of food science
DE food engineering; food microbiology; food quality; multi-objective decision
   making; pareto optimization; quality control; sensory evaluation
ID algorithms; analysis of variance; decision making; food analysis; food
   microbiology; food quality; food technology; plant proteins; volatile
   organic compounds; wine; analysis of variance ( anova ); chemical analysis;
   decision making; multi-objective optimization; quality control; sensory
   analysis; plant protein; volatile organic compound; data evaluation; diverse
   methods; food chemistry; food engineering; multi-criteria decision making;
   multi-criteria optimization; optimal solutions; validated methods; analysis
   of variance; article; evergreen; food handling; food quality; human;
   intermethod comparison; meta analysis; multi-criteria decision analysis;
   multi-objective optimization; nonhuman; nutritional science; physician;
   quality control; sensory analysis; sensory evaluation; algorithm; chemistry;
   decision making; food analysis; food control; food handling; food quality;
   metabolism; procedures; wine; food microbiology

---

UT 371
AR Morales-Garzón A, 2025, EXPERT SYS APPL, V281, DOI
   10.1016/j.eswa.2025.127603
TI Service-oriented multi-platform for food computing: A mobile application for
   recipe adaptation to nutrition behaviours (AI2Cuisine)
AU Morales-Garzón A; Peinado PS; Morcillo-Jimenez R; Gutiérrez-Batista K;
   Martin-Bautista MJ
TC 1
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2025
AB supporting users in their food choices for mindful eating has become one of
   the spotlights for investigating modern food systems . however , building
   integral food platforms for this purpose is challenging due to dealing with
   heterogeneous data sources of different scopes , such as recipe data , food
   data , and user and dietary specificities . this research paper presents a
   versatile multi platform architecture based on micro services for dealing
   with different food related tasks . the contributions of this research are
   manifold : ( 1 ) firstly , we propose an architecture that enables us to
   handle various food related tasks while managing various food data sources ,
   providing data standardization , scalability , and security benefits . ( 2 )
   we introduce a novel recipe adaptation algorithm based on intelligent search
   in external resources and intelligent adaptation of the recipe preparation .
   ( 3 ) we include ai2cuisine , a mobile application for recipe adaptation to
   meet different requirements like preferences , health and sustainable goals
   . ( 4 ) finally , we perform an analysis and discussion in term of the
   necessity and impact of such sort of applications on the population . to
   demonstrate the feasibility of our proposal , we have conducted an
   experimental evaluation , and the results have been validated for various
   end users with different expertise
DE food system; healthy diet; micro-services; natural language processing;
   recipe adaptation
ID food chemistry; food system; healthy diet; language processing; micro-
   services; mobile applications; multi-platform; natural language processing;
   natural languages; recipe adaptation; service oriented; food ingredients

---

UT 372
AR Chowdhury S, 2025, INT CONF ADV ELECTRON COMMUN ENG AECE, P399, DOI
   10.1109/AECE67531.2025.11386707
TI Predictive Analytics in Food Supply Chain and Waste Management
AU Chowdhury S; Prasad P; Patidar L; Swetha S; Prakash S; Sharma M
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV ELECTRON COMMUN ENG AECE
PY 2025
AB effective demand forecasting , inventory control , and wastage minimization
   are top issues within the restaurant business , in which volatile demand
   trends contribute to unwanted food wastage and economic loss . this study
   investigates the utilization of machine learning ( ml ) models such as long
   short term memory ( lstm ) , xgboost , and random forest ( rf ) to maximize
   supply chain functions through effective demand forecasting and wastage
   minimization . the models were evaluated and optimized on actual restaurant
   data gathered over a period of time in order to make reliable predictions to
   control waste and inventory . precision , recall , f1-score , accuracy , mae
   , rmse , mape , r2 , stock turnover ratio ( str ) , fill rate , and waste to
   sales ratio were the performance metrics used to measure the performance of
   the models . among the models , the best performing was xgboost with the
   best prediction accuracy in the residuals , minimum waste to sales ratio ,
   and maximum cost savings and thus the best model for restaurant operation
   optimization . the findings show the promise of predictive analytics with ai
   in enhancing sustainability , minimizing food waste , and maximizing
   profitability in the food supply chain
DE food supply chain; inventory optimization; machine learning; predictive
   analytics; waste management
ID food supply; food waste; inventory control; learning systems; long short-
   term memory; losses; prediction models; predictive analytics; supply chain
   management; supply chains; demand forecasting; economic loss; effective
   demands; food supply chain; food wastages; inventory optimization; machine
   learning models; machine learning; minimisation; short-term memory; waste
   management

---

UT 373
AR Zhang D/4, 2024, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V148, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104513
TI Unveiling the chemical complexity of food-risk components: A comprehensive
   data resource guide in 2024
AU Zhang D/4; Liu D/2; Jing J; Jia B; Tian Y/1; Le Y; Yu Y/3; Hu Q-N
TC 14
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB background : with the influence of climate change , environmental pollution
   , global industrialization , and new agricultural practices , increasing
   amounts of chemical substances with potential risks both anthropogenic and
   biogenic enter the food supply chain , entailing new challenges to food
   safety and security . although some food risk components ( frcs ) have been
   accessed and regulated , the toxicity and exposure level of the numerous
   components detected in food remain unknown , leaving questions on their
   effect on food safety . therefore , multiple databases on emerging frcs have
   been constructed to aid in food safety assessment , regulation , and
   communication . however , their focus areas , data content , quality , and
   accessibility have not been systematically summarized , which hinders their
   applications and the development of data driven methods in the food safety
   field . scope and approach : the major objective of this review is to
   introduce representative frc databases with different focus areas , along
   with their chemical presentation , data quality and availability , and
   successful applications . key findings and conclusions : over the past
   decades , over 50 frc databases have been released , contributing
   significantly to scientific research , policymaking , and education .
   however , our analysis unveils persistent challenges such as delayed updates
   , accessibility concerns , reproducibility issues , suboptimal data quality
   , and inadequate coverage in underdeveloped regions . to address these
   shortcomings , we propose an initiative aimed at enhancing future frc
   databases , prioritizing the principles of findability , accessibility ,
   interoperability , and reusability . additionally , we highlight the
   potential of future strategies , e . g . , natural language processing ,
   cheminformatics enpowered suspect and non targeted analysis , and genome
   mining , for the detection and analysis of emerging new frcs outside of
   existing databases . by embracing these initiatives and strategies , we lay
   the groundwork for a robust framework facilitating enhanced food safety
   assessment and informed decision making in the face of evolving challenges
DE big data; food components; food informatics; food safety; mycotoxins;
   pesticides
ID big data; chemical contamination; climate change; database systems; decision
   making; food safety; food supply; natural language processing systems;
   quality control; reusability; safety engineering; supply chains; chemical
   complexity; data quality; focus areas; food components; food informatic;
   food risks; food safety; informatics; risk components; safety assessments;
   mycotoxins

---

UT 374
AR Chakraborty D/1, 2023, J COMPUT SYST, V63, P1243, DOI
   10.1080/08874417.2022.2132428
TI Big Data in Food: Systematic Literature Review and Future Directions
AU Chakraborty D/1; Rana NP; Khorana S; Singu HB; Luthra S
TC 43
SO J COMPUT SYST
PY 2023
AB the growing importance of big data in the food industry enables businesses
   to leverage information to gain a competitive advantage . this paper
   provides a systematic literature review ( slr ) to provide an insight into
   the use of state of art of big data applications in the food industry . the
   slr relies on available literature that provides the context , theoretical
   construct and identifies gaps . based on the findings , we suggest
   recommendations , identify limitations and suggest policy implications and
   future directions . using search databases were examined and 38 relevant
   studies were identified for retrospective analysis . the review shows that
   big data supports the food industry in ways that enable using artificial
   intelligence to manage restaurants and mobile based applications in
   supporting consumers with restaurant selection . this slr open new avenues
   for future research in the importance of big data in the food industry ,
   which will surely help researchers / practitioners in effective utilization
   of big databig data . 2022 international association for computer
   information systems .
DE big data; food; food safety; food security; food waste; systematic
   literature review
ID competition; food supply; public policy; big data applications; competitive
   advantage; data support; food industries; food security; food waste; food
   safety; policy implications; retrospective analysis; systematic literature
   review; big data

---

UT 375
AR Dey L, 2025, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM, P14335, DOI
   10.1145/3746027.3762386
TI MMFood'25: 1st International Workshop on Multi-modal Food Computing
AU Dey L; Obrist M; Mougiakakou S
TC 0
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2025
AB mmfood'25 , the 1st international workshop on multi modal food computing ,
   brings together researchers and practitioners at the intersection of
   artificial intelligence , computer vision , natural language processing ,
   and sensory modeling to advance the study of food . the workshop highlights
   how multimodal methods can be applied to food recognition , recommendation ,
   analysis , and monitoring to address pressing challenges in health ,
   nutrition , sustainability , and food culture . it features a rich program
   including a keynote , an invited talk , paper presentations , a poster
   session , and a panel discussion on the role of multimodal ai in preserving
   cultural heritage , fostering sustainable food futures , and enabling
   personal well being . by convening experts from academia , industry , and
   healthcare , mmfood'25 provides a unique platform for fostering
   interdisciplinary collaboration and for shaping the emerging field of
   multimodal food computing . the workshop proceedings can be found at : 2025
   owner / author .
DE artificial intelligence; computational gastronomy; food culture; health
   informatics; multi-modal food computing; sustainability
ID medical computing; medical informatics; natural language processing systems;
   sustainable development; computational gastronomy; food computing; food
   culture; health informatics; international workshops; language processing;
   multi-modal; multi-modal food computing; natural languages; pressung;
   artificial intelligence

---

UT 376
AR Nychas G-J, 2021, ANNU REV BIOMED DATA SCI, V4, P341, DOI 10.1146/annurev-
   biodatasci-020221-123602
TI Data Science in the Food Industry
AU Nychas G-J; Sims E; Tsakanikas P; Mohareb F
TC 50
SO ANNU REV BIOMED DATA SCI
PY 2021
AB food safety is one of the main challenges of the agri food industry that is
   expected to be addressed in the current environment of tremendous
   technological progress , where consumers lifestyles and preferences are in a
   constant state of flux . food chain transparency and trust are drivers for
   food integrity control and for improvements in efficiency and economic
   growth . similarly , the circular economy has great potential to reduce
   wastage and improve the efficiency of operations in multi stakeholder
   ecosystems . throughout the food chain cycle , all food commodities are
   exposed to multiple hazards , resulting in a high likelihood of
   contamination . such biological or chemical hazards may be naturally present
   at any stage of food production , whether accidentally introduced or
   fraudulently imposed , risking consumers health and their faith in the food
   industry . nowadays , a massive amount of data is generated , not only from
   the next generation of food safety monitoring systems and along the entire
   food chain ( primary production included ) but also from the internet of
   things , media , and other devices . these data should be used for the
   benefit of society , and the scientific field of data science should be a
   vital player in helping to make this possible
DE big data; food microbiology; food safety; machine learning; omics
ID data science; ecosystem; food; food safety; technology; ecosystem; food;
   food safety; technology

---

UT 377
AR Alaeddini M, 2025, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V253, P1621, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2025.01.224
TI An Integrated Big Data Analytics Architecture for Resilience: A Case Study
   of Last-Mile Agri-Food Delivery
AU Alaeddini M; Asgari A
TC 6
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB in the wake of global crises and the rising need for robust supply chains ,
   this study delves into the role of big data analytics in agri food logistics
   . emphasizing the need for uninterrupted access to essential food supplies ,
   we use a case study approach to outline the requirements for a comprehensive
   big data solution . this solution , which includes descriptive , predictive
   , and prescriptive analytics , is based on industry standards , academic
   research , and the specific needs of a large b2b2c last mile food delivery
   company . the proposed system architecture enhances resilience by
   integrating these three types of analytics , enabling improved anticipation
   , response , and recovery from supply chain disruptions
DE agri-food supply chain; big data analytics; last-mile delivery; social-
   ecological resilience; sustainability; system architecture
ID agribusiness; food industry; agri-food supply chains; big data analytic;
   case-studies; data analytics; food delivery; food logistics; last-mile;
   last-mile delivery; social-ecological resilience; systems architecture;
   agri-food

---

UT 378
AR Liu P, 2022, RAIRO OPER RES, V56, P1995, DOI 10.1051/ro/2022070
TI Subsidy and pricing strategies of an agri-food supply chain considering the
   application of Big Data and blockchain
AU Liu P; Zhang Z/8; Dong F-Y
TC 19
SO RAIRO OPER RES
PY 2022
AB based on the advantages of big data and blockchain in food traceability area
   and information sharing area , it has attracted widespread attentions .
   however , it is not so popular in agricultural field , a vital reason is the
   scarcity of effective incentives . government incentive as an important
   incentive measure is thought to be useful . to study the subsidy rules in
   the new background , we chose an agri food supply chain with one producer
   and one retailer as research object and divided government incentive into
   direct incentive and indirect incentive . then , considering the changes of
   consumer perceived safety on agri food in the new environment , the demand
   function was revised . furthermore , we proposed and analyzed three subsidy
   models and their benefit functions considering the information service
   inputs based on big data and blockchain ( bbis ) . findings : ( 1 ) the
   subsidy models will not change the variation tendency of prices and benefits
   with the bbis optimization coefficient , the bbis investment costs from the
   producer and the retailer , the ascension of the unreliability coefficient
   of quality safety and the agri food quality level . ( 2 ) when the subsidy
   coefficients about direct and indirect subsidies can meet a relationship ,
   benefits of chain members in the indirect subsidy model are higher than them
   in the direct subsidy model . findings offer a theoretical guidance for
   government departments to make and implement the subsidy strategies . in
   addition , for company , it can provide a theoretical guidance on setting
   pricing strategies in the new technology background . the authors .
   published by edp sciences , roadef , smai 2022 .
DE agri-food supply chain; big data; blockchain; government incentive
ID big data; costs; food safety; food supply; functions; information services;
   supply chains; agri-food supply chains; agricultural fields; blockchain;
   food traceabilitys; government incentive; incentive measures; information
   sharing; pricing strategy; research object; sharing area; blockchain

---

UT 379
AR Wei W, 2021, IEEE INT CONF ARTIF INTELL IND DES AIID, P496, DOI
   10.1109/AIID51893.2021.9456537
TI Design and Implementation of Regional Food Distribution Platform Based on
   Big Data
AU Wei W; Liang H; Zhang B/1; Damasevicius R; Scherer R
TC 2
SO IEEE INT CONF ARTIF INTELL IND DES AIID
PY 2021
AB in recent years , the rapid development of big data has made people s daily
   life very convenient , and at the same time , tasting all kinds of food has
   become an important activity for people to travel . due to the vast
   territory of china , there are many types of cuisines with great differences
   , it is very important for travelers to understand the special regional
   cuisines in the area . this project aggregates regional food data based on
   big data , and provides tourists with efficient , stable and professional
   data retrieval and analysis services through a visual data interface , and
   provides intuitive , accurate , and real time data support for the decision
   making of finding characteristic regional food . this thesis first conducted
   a relevant understanding of big data and the overall situation of regional
   cuisine , analyzed the distribution of food in the sub provincial city of
   xi'an , explored the research methods and implementation methods of related
   projects at home and abroad , based on this , summarized the research of
   this project the goal . at the same time , the focus of this project is to
   analyze the price , score and popularity of regional food data analysis in
   my country , and to summarize , proofread and organize the data obtained
   before into standard and standardized data . through the classification of
   basic information , the visual analysis and display of data is realized ,
   and the key data urgently needed by decision makers are extracted from it .
   to analyze the needs of decision makers , establish corresponding strategies
   and measures to improve the quality of data services . the establishment of
   this system provides a useful supplement and improvement to the existing
   industry data analysis system . the system is mainly divided into six
   modules , which are data collection , data review , data summary , and
   visual data display modules . among them , data collection includes crawling
   relevant data from the internet and retrieving key data . the data audit
   function includes classifying the crawled data and reviewing its
   effectiveness . data aggregation includes summarizing the filtered data in
   an excel table and passing excel generates a visual chart that you want to
   know , and at the same time generates a word cloud by associating certain
   two related items in the data in the excel table . the visual data display
   module can more clearly show the results of data analysis to users , so that
   users can make better decisions . the visualization data uses amchart flash
   charts . the implementation of this system adopts django python web
   framework , the development language chooses python , the development tool
   adopted is pycharm , and the database tool adopts mysql
DE big data; crawlers; django; platform design and implementation; regional
   cuisine
ID artificial intelligence; behavioral research; big data; data acquisition;
   data handling; data visualization; decision making; electric power system
   interconnection; high level languages; product design; data aggregation;
   data collection; decision makers; design and implementations; development
   tools; food distribution; strategies and measures; visual analysis;
   classification ( of information )

---

UT 380
AR Pitts J, 2020, FRONT BIG DATA, V3, DOI 10.3389/fdata.2020.00013
TI Leveraging Big Data and Analytics to Improve Food, Energy, and Water System
   Sustainability
AU Pitts J; Gopal S; Ma Y/2; Koch M; Boumans RM; Kaufman L
TC 21
SO FRONT BIG DATA
PY 2020
AB with the world population projected to grow significantly over the next few
   decades , and in the presence of additional stress caused by climate change
   and urbanization , securing the essential resources of food , energy , and
   water is one of the most pressing challenges that the world faces today .
   there is an increasing priority placed by the united nations ( un ) and us
   federal agencies on efforts to ensure the security of these critical
   resources , understand their interactions , and address common underlying
   challenges . at the heart of the technological challenge is data science
   applied to environmental data . the aim of this special publication is the
   focus on big data science for food , energy , and water systems ( fewss ) .
   we describe a research methodology to frame in the fews context , including
   decision tools to aid policy makers and non governmental organizations (
   ngos ) to tackle specific un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
   through this exercise , we aim to improve the ' supply chain ' of fews
   research , from gathering and analyzing data to decision tools supporting
   policy makers in addressing fews issues in specific contexts . we discuss
   prior research in each of the segments to highlight shortcomings as well as
   future research directions
DE decision support systems models; ecosystems; fews; gis; sustainability

---

UT 381
AR Wang X/4, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT PROCESS TECHNOL ISCIPT, P340, DOI
   10.1109/ISCIPT67144.2025.11265145
TI SC2P-YOLO: Food Detection with Lightweight Convolution and Collaborative
   Attention
AU Wang X/4; Han Q; Zhi S; Zhu X/1; Sheng G
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT PROCESS TECHNOL ISCIPT
PY 2025
AB food detection , a key task in food computing , faces significant challenges
   from large intra class variability , high interclass similarity , and long
   tailed category distributions . to address these issues , we propose spatial
   and channel collaborative perception yolo ( sc2 p yolo ) , a novel framework
   that balances detection accuracy and real time performance , particularly
   for complex and long tailed food categories . our framework introduces two
   key innovations : the partialconvc3 module , which reduces model parameters
   and computational cost through partial convolutions and optimized memory
   access . and the effdualattn module , a dual attention mechanism that
   enhances feature discrimination for fine grained and long tailed categories
   via dynamic channel modeling and multi granularity feature fusion .
   extensive experiments on the uec food 256 dataset demonstrate that sc2 p
   yolo surpasses several representative yolo based detectors , achieving state
   of the art ( sota ) accuracy with a lightweight architecture . our results
   confirm its strong generalization and practical applicability
DE deep learning; food computing; food detection; lightweight; yolo
ID convolution; distributed computer systems; memory architecture; signal
   processing; collaborative attention; deep learning; detection accuracy; food
   computing; food detection; inter class; intra class; lightweight; real time
   performance; yolo; deep learning

---

UT 382
AR Scharff RL, 2020, J FOOD PROT, V83, P959, DOI 10.4315/JFP-19-548
TI Food attribution and economic cost estimates for meat- And poultry-related
   illnesses
AU Scharff RL
TC 114
SO J FOOD PROT
PY 2020
AB the economic burden of foodborne illness has been estimated to be as high as
   us $ 90 billion annually . for policy purposes , it is often important to
   understand not only the overall cost of illness but also the costs
   associated with individual products or groups of products . in this study ,
   i estimate the cost of foodborne illnesses from 29 pathogens associated with
   nongame meat and poultry products that are regulated by the you . s .
   department of agriculture . to complete this , i merge results from a food
   attribution model with results from an illness model and an economic burden
   of illness model . the food attribution model uses outbreak and expert
   elicitation data to attribute foods to pathogens . the illness model is a
   replication of the 2011 study published by the centers for disease control
   and prevention . the economic cost model is an updated version of previously
   published studies that include costs for medical care , lost productivity ,
   loss of life , and pain and suffering . the primary attribution model ,
   based largely on interagency food safety analytics collaboration assumptions
   , estimates that meat and poultry products are vectors for 30.9 % of all
   foodborne illnesses . this translates into 2.9 million annual illnesses ,
   yielding economic costs of up to $ 20.3 billion . the costliest food
   pathogen pairs include campylobacter spp . in poultry ( $ 6.9 billion ) ,
   salmonella spp . in chicken and pork ( $ 2.8 and $ 1.9 billion ,
   respectively ) , and toxoplasma gondii in pork ( $ 1.9 billion ) . results
   based on alternative attribution and economic model assumptions are also
   presented , generating meat and poultry attribution estimates ranging from
   27.1 to 36.7 % and economic costs of $ 8.1 to $ 22.5 billion . 2020
   international association for food protection
DE burden of illness; cost of illness; economic cost; food attribution;
   foodborne illness; outbreaks
ID animals; cost of illness; disease outbreaks; food microbiology; foodborne
   diseases; meat; poultry; united states; animal; cost of illness; epidemic;
   food control; food poisoning; meat; poultry; united states

---

UT 383
AR Shah K, 2025, IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGN WORK, P458, DOI
   10.1109/CVPRW67362.2025.00050
TI FoodVideoQA: A Novel Baseline Framework for Dietary Monitoring
AU Shah K; Viswanath S; Xi P; Wong A; Chen Y/9
TC 0
SO IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGN WORK
PY 2025
AB food intake monitoring is a crucial area of research in food computing due
   to its complexity and significant potential for improving health outcomes .
   while traditional 2d image based dietary assessments provide basic
   information , video offers a more detailed understanding of both the
   quantity of food consumed and the manner in which it is eaten . however ,
   current video based dietary analysis remains limited to coarse metrics ,
   such as counting bites . in this paper , we introduce foodvideoqa , a novel
   approach that leverages vision language models ( vlms ) to analyze food
   intake videos comprehensively . we discuss the inherent limitations of a vlm
   based approach to this problem , demonstrating the necessity for further
   novel approaches in this field . this work paves the way for future studies
   for more advanced multimodal food intake measurement and behavioral studies
   . source code is available at 2025 ieee .
ID agri-food; food chemistry; food ingredients; video analysis; current; 2d
   images; dietary assessments; food computing; food intake; food intake
   monitoring; health outcomes; image-based; inherent limitations; language
   model; nutrition

---

UT 384
AR Wu X, 2024, PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT, P4144,
   DOI 10.1109/CVPR52733.2024.00397
TI OVFoodSeg: Elevating Open-Vocabulary Food Image Segmentation via Image-
   Informed Textual Representation
AU Wu X; Yu S/1; Lim E-P; Ngo C-W
TC 11
SO PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT
PY 2024
AB in the realm of food computing , segmenting ingredients from images poses
   substantial challenges due to the large intra class variance among the same
   ingredients , the emergence of new ingredients , and the high annotation
   costs as sociated with large food segmentation datasets . existing
   approaches primarily utilize a closed vocabulary and static text embeddings
   setting . these methods often fall short in effectively handling the
   ingredients , particularly new and diverse ones . in response to these
   limitations , we introduce ovfoodseg , a framework that adopts an open
   vocabulary setting and enhances text embeddings with visual context . by
   integrating vision language models ( vlms ) , our approach enriches text
   embedding with image specific infor mation through two innovative modules ,
   e . g . , an image to text learner foodlearner and an image informed text
   encoder . the training process of ovfoodseg is divided into two stages : the
   pre training of foodlearner and the sub sequent learning phase for
   segmentation . the pre training phase equips foodlearner with the capability
   to align visual information with corresponding textual representations that
   are specifically related to food , while the second phase adapts both the
   foodlearner and the image informed text encoder for the segmentation task .
   by addressing the de ficiencies of previous models , ovfoodseg demonstrates
   a significant improvement , achieving an 4.9 % increase in mean intersection
   over union ( miou ) on the foodseg103 dataset , setting a new milestone for
   food image segmentation

---

UT 385
AR Zatsu V, 2024, FOOD CHEM X, V24, DOI 10.1016/j.fochx.2024.101867
TI Revolutionizing the food industry: The transformative power of artificial
   intelligence-a review
AU Zatsu V; Shine AE; Tharakan JM; Peter D; Ranganathan TV; Alotaibi SS; Mugabi
   R; Muhsinah AB; Waseem M; Nayik GA
TC 140
SO FOOD CHEM X
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is revolutionizing the food industry by
   optimizing processes , improving food quality and safety , and fostering
   innovation . this review examines ai s applications in food science ,
   including supply chain management , production , sensory science , and
   personalized nutrition . it discusses techniques like knowledge based expert
   systems , fuzzy logic , artificial neural networks , and machine learning ,
   highlighting their roles in predictive maintenance , quality control ,
   product development , and waste management . the integration of ai with
   sophisticated sensors enhances real time monitoring and decision making in
   food safety and packaging . however , challenges such as ethical concerns ,
   data security , transparency , and high costs persist . ai is poised to
   advance sustainability by optimizing resource use , enhance food security
   through predictive analytics of crop yields , and drive innovation in
   personalized nutrition and supply chain automation , ensuring tailored
   products and efficient delivery . this paper underscores ai s transformative
   potential in the food industry while addressing the obstacles to its
   widespread adoption
DE artificial intelligence; food safety; food sector; food security; fuzzy
   logic; machine learning; sensory analysis
ID ai applications; food industries; food quality and safeties; food sector;
   food security; food safety; fuzzy logic; machine learning; power; process
   improving; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; automation;
   decision making; expert system; food; food industry; food quality; food
   safety; food security; fuzzy logic; harvest; human; information security;
   machine learning; nutritional science; packaging; personalized nutrition;
   pharmaceutics; product development; quality control; review; sensor; sensory
   analysis; waste management; expert systems

---

UT 386
AR Kāle M, 2021, BALT J MOD COMP, V9, P155, DOI 10.22364/BJMC.2021.9.2.01
TI Utility of large-scale recipe data in food computing
AU Kāle M; Agbozo E
TC 2
SO BALT J MOD COMP
PY 2021
AB this article aims to look at the recipe data analysis from a critical
   perspective , offering the authors own learning experience from successes
   and failures of the research process . the present recipe research has been
   limited by the availability of data , which in the case of recipes mostly
   consists of texts depicting a variety of ingredients . this has contributed
   to a better understanding of flavor formation and nutritional value of food
   but has not led further to establishing a corpus of healthy and unhealthy
   foods . time related cooking aspects have remained largely out of the
   present research s scope due to the difficulties in obtaining immediately
   analyzable data . the same goes for the recipe relate research on food
   texture , color and other aspects . in this research the methodology of
   topic modeling has been applied to analyze recipes in north american and
   mexican cuisines in order to highlight the core culinary themes within these
   two cuisines . potential for result analysis , as well as its limitations ,
   are also discussed . topic models of agglomerated data can be helpful in
   further multisensory research , as they provide some insights into the color
   , the flavor and , potentially , the texture of certain groups of dishes .
   it can be combined further on with social media sentiment analysis and other
   research methods to better grasp the human relationship with food . 2021
   baltic journal of modern computing
DE food computing; healthy food; multisensory research; nlp; recipes; topic
   modeling

---

UT 387
AR Natilli M, 2019, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V11054 LNAI, P156, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-13463-1_12
TI Exploring students eating habits through individual profiling and clustering
   analysis
AU Natilli M; Monreale A; Guidotti R; Pappalardo L
TC 2
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2019
AB individual well being strongly depends on food habits , therefore it is
   important to educate the general population , and especially young people ,
   to the importance of a healthy and balanced diet . to this end ,
   understanding the real eating habits of people becomes fundamental for a
   better and more effective intervention to improve the students diet . in
   this paper we present two exploratory analyzes based on centroid based
   clustering that have the goal of understanding the food habits of university
   students . the first clustering analysis simply exploits the information
   about the students food consumption of specific food categories , while the
   second exploratory analysis includes the temporal dimension in order to
   capture the information about when the students consume specific foods . the
   second approach enables the study of the impact of the time of consumption
   on the choice of the food
DE clustering analysis; food analytics; individual models
ID food supply; learning systems; nutrition; based clustering; clustering
   analysis; exploratory analysis; food consumption; general population;
   individual models; temporal dimensions; university students; students

---

UT 388
AR Stojanov R, 2020, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12566 LNCS, P28, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-64580-9_4
TI FoodViz: Visualization of Food Entities Linked Across Different Standards
AU Stojanov R; Popovski G; Jofce N; Trajanov D; Seljak BK/1; Eftimov T
TC 11
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB many research questions from different domains involve combining different
   data sets in order to explore a research hypothesis . one of the main
   problems that arises here is that different data sets are structured with
   respect to different domain standards and ensuring their interoperability is
   a time consuming task . in the biomedical domain , the unified medical
   language system supports interoperability between biomedical data sets by
   providing semantic resources and natural language processing tools for
   automatic annotation . this allows users also to understand the links
   between different biomedical standards . while there are extensive resources
   available for the biomedical domain , the food and nutrition domain is
   relatively low resourced . to make the links between different food
   standards understandable by food subject matter experts we propose the
   foodviz . it is a web based framework used to present food annotation
   results from existing natural language processing and machine learning
   pipelines in combination with different food semantic data models . using
   this framework , users would become more familiar with the links between
   different food semantic data models
DE big data on food and nutrition; food named entity recognition; visualization
ID data science; interoperability; machine learning; pipeline processing
   systems; semantics; automatic annotation; extensive resources; natural
   language processing; natural language processing tools; semantic data model;
   subject matter experts; time-consuming tasks; unified medical language
   systems; natural language processing systems

---

UT 389
AR Abhari S, 2019, J BIOMED PHYS ENG, V9, P591, DOI 10.31661/jbpe.v0i0.1248
TI A systematic review of nutrition recommendation systems: With focus on
   technical aspects
AU Abhari S; Safdari R/1; Azadbakht L; Lankarani KB; Niakan Kalhori SR;
   Honarvar B; Abhari K; Ayyoubza-Deh SM; Karbasi Z; Zakerabasali S; Jalilpiran
   Y
TC 55
SO J BIOMED PHYS ENG
PY 2019
AB background : nutrition informatics has become a novel approach for
   registered dietitians to practice in this field and make a profit for health
   care . recommendation systems considered as an effective technology into aid
   users to adjust their eating behavior and achieve the goal of healthier food
   and diet . the purpose of this study is to review nutrition recommendation
   systems ( nrs ) and their characteristics for the first time . material and
   methods : the systematic review was conducted using a comprehensive
   selection of scientific databases as reference sources , allowing access to
   diverse publications in the field . the process of articles selection was
   based on the prisma strategy . we identified keywords from our initial
   research , mesh database and expert s opinion . databases of pubmed , web of
   sciences , scopus , embase , and ieee were searched . after evaluating ,
   they obtained records from databases by two independent reviewers and
   inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied to each retrieved work to
   select those of interest . finally , 25 studies were included . results :
   hybrid recommender systems and knowledge based recommender systems with 40 %
   and 32 % , respectively , were the mostly recommender types used in nrs . in
   nrs , rule based and ontology techniques were used frequently . the
   frequented platform that applied in nrs was a mobile application with 28 % .
   conclusion : if nrs was properly designed , implemented and finally
   evaluated , it could be used as an effective tool to improve nutrition and
   promote a healthy lifestyle . this study can help to inform specialists in
   the nutrition informatics domain , which was necessary to design and develop
   nrs . 2019 , shiraz university of medical sciences
DE computing methodologies; diet; informatics; information science; nutrition
ID article; computer analysis; embase; healthy lifestyle; human; information
   science; medline; mobile application; nutrition; ontology; scopus;
   systematic review

---

UT 390
AR Chen Y/4, 2017, JISUANJI FUZHU SHEJI YU TUXINGXUE XUEBAO, V29, P8
TI A survey of visual analytical techniques for big data in food safety field
AU Chen Y/4; Liu Y/5; Tian S/1; Fan C; Sun Y/3
TC 3
SO JISUANJI FUZHU SHEJI YU TUXINGXUE XUEBAO
PY 2017
AB as a new interdisciplinary research field , visual analysis techniques for
   big data on food safety can help field researchers to observe the data
   distribution trends and explore the implicit relationships among data
   rapidly through advanced interactive visualization tools . so that it can
   enhance human s cognitive ability and analysis ability , and improve
   scientificity and effectiveness of the food safety supervision and
   management . in this paper , we first introduce the necessity of
   visualization and analysis requirements of food safety data , then describe
   the common characteristics of food safety data , such as high dimension ,
   multivariate , hierarchy , geo temporal and association , gives the survey
   of the existing visualization and visual analysis techniques and systems
   that are suitable for food safety data . and last , we give the future
   development trend of food safety data visualization and visual analytics
   techniques . 2017 , beijing china science journal publishing co . ltd . all
   right reserved .
DE big data; food security data; information visualization; visual analytics
ID data visualization; food safety; food supply; information systems; surveys;
   visualization; development trends; food security; implicit relationships;
   information visualization; interactive visualization tool; interdisciplinary
   research; visual analytics; visualization and analysis; big data

---

UT 391
AR Kāle M, 2020, CEUR WORK PROC, V2865, P51
TI Healthy food depiction on social media: The case of kale on twitter
AU Kāle M; Agbozo E
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2020
AB this food computing study analyzes twitter microblog entries related to food
   . a particular attention here is paid to one specific healthy food kale .
   such an approach is chosen due to kale s popularity as a healthy food . by
   applying sentiment measurement , authors contribute to the understanding of
   text based stories behind healthy food , and conclude that kale offers clear
   benefits for consumers via its specific health related aspects ( anti
   inflammatory , immune system boosting , etc . ) while taste is being left
   outside the discourse . the lack of any references to taste in kale related
   social media stories leads to the conclusion that healthy food descriptions
   in general are short of hedonistic manifestations . subsequently , this can
   be seen as one of the drawbacks of healthy food presentation textually vis a
   vis comfort foods . with this study authors add to the knowledge of the most
   efficient methods in shaping healthier consumer behaviors and inspire for
   further research of text based information related to food . 2021 for this
   paper by its authors . use permitted under creative commons license
   attribution 4.0 international ( cc by 4.0 ) .
DE food blog; food computing; health; kale; nlp; sentiment-token bigram; social
   media; taste; word association
ID consumer behavior; nutrition; anti-inflammatories; food computing; healthy
   foods; micro-blog; social media; text-based information; social networking (
   online )

---

UT 392
AR Wang Y/10, 2017, CONF REC ASILOMAR CONF SIGNALS SYST COMPUT, P1263, DOI
   10.1109/ACSSC.2016.7869576
TI Food image analysis: The big data problem you can eat!
AU Wang Y/10; Fang S; Liu C/4; Zhu F/2; Kerr DA; Boushey CJ; Delp EJ
TC 2
SO CONF REC ASILOMAR CONF SIGNALS SYST COMPUT
PY 2017
AB six of the ten leading causes of death in the united states can be directly
   linked to diet . measuring accurate dietary intake , the process of
   determining what someone eats is considered to be an open research problem
   in the nutrition and health fields . we are developing image based tools in
   order to automatically obtain accurate estimates of what foods a user
   consumes . we have developed a novel food record application using the
   embedded camera in a mobile device . this paper describes the current status
   of food image analysis and overviews problems that still need to be
   addressed
ID image analysis; mobile devices; nutrition; causes of death; current status;
   data problems; dietary intakes; food image; image-based; novel foods;
   research problems; big data

---

UT 393
AR Volpentesta AP, 2018, ADV HUM COMPUT INTERACT, V2018, DOI
   10.1155/2018/8608407
TI Organizational and Technological Aspects of a Platform for Collective Food
   Awareness
AU Volpentesta AP; Felicetti AM; Frega N
TC 5
SO ADV HUM COMPUT INTERACT
PY 2018
AB can internet of food technologies foster collective food awareness within a
   food consumer community ? the paper contributes to answer this question in a
   fourfold aspect . firstly , we model a cooperative process for generating
   and sharing reliable food information that is derived from food instrumental
   measurements performed by consumers via smart food things . secondly , we
   outline the functional architecture of a platform capable to support such a
   process and to let a consumer community share reliable food information .
   thirdly , we identify main entities and their attributes necessary to model
   the contextualized interaction between a consumer and the platform . lastly
   , we review articles reviewing technologies capable of acquiring and
   quantifying food characteristics for food performances assessment . the
   purpose is to give an insight into current research directions on
   technologies employable in a platform for collective food awareness . 2018
   antonio p . volpentesta et al .

---

UT 394
AR Polychronou I, 2020, INT J METADATA SEMANT ONTOL, V14, P306
TI Stress-Testing big data platform to extract smart and interoperable food
   safety analytics
AU Polychronou I; Stoitsis G; Papakonstantinou M; Manouselis N
TC 3
SO INT J METADATA SEMANT ONTOL
PY 2020
AB one of the significant challenges for the future is to guarantee safe food
   for all inhabitants of the planet . during the last 15 years , very
   important fraud issues like the 2013 horse meat scandal and the 2008 chinese
   milk scandal have greatly affected the food industry and public health . one
   of the alternatives for this issue consists of increasing production , but
   to accomplish this , it is necessary that innovative options be applied to
   enhance the safety of the food supply chain . for this reason , it is quite
   important to have the right infrastructure in order to manage data of the
   food safety sector and provide useful analytics to food safety experts . in
   this paper , we describe agroknow s big data platform architecture and
   examine its scalability for data management and experimentation
DE big data; data experimentation; data management; data platform; evaluation
   metrics; food safety; infrastructure performance; machine learning;
   predictive analytics; stress-testing data
ID big data; food safety; food supply; interoperability; safety testing; supply
   chains; data platform; food industries; increasing production; stress-
   testing; information management

---

UT 395
AR [Anonymous], 2008, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V6983
TI Proceedings of SPIE : Defense and Security 2008 - Special Sessions on Food
   Safety, Visual Analytics, Resource Restricted Embedded and Sensor Networks,
   and 3D Imaging and Display
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2008
AB the proceedings contain 22 papers . the topics discussed include : modified
   pressure system for imaging egg cracks . imaging skeletal muscle with
   linearly polarized light . detecting citrus canker by hyperspectral
   reflectance imaging and pca based image classification method . portable
   hyperspectral fluorescence imaging system for detection of biofilms on
   stainless steel surfaces . applications of immunomagnetic capture and time
   resolved fluorescence detection for salmonella enteriditis in liquid eggs .
   rapid screening and species identification of e , coli , listeria , and
   salmonella by sers technique . a human centric approach in geospatial data
   fusion fro real time remotely controlled robotic platforms . visual analysis
   for live lidar battlefield change detection . and 3d optical microscopy
   using digital holography .
ID canning; civil defense; computer generated holography; computer networks;
   crack detection; data fusion; data recording; detectors; fluorescence; food
   preservation; holographic interferometry; image analysis; image
   classification; image fusion; imaging systems; iron; laser recording; light
   emission; luminescence; metal analysis; metropolitan area networks;
   microscopic examination; network protocols; optical microscopy; optical
   radar; optics; optoelectronic devices; photonics; sensor data fusion; sensor
   networks; sensors; stainless steel; steel analysis; steel corrosion;
   surfaces; three dimensional; battlefield ( co ); change detection;
   classification methods; digital holography ( dh ); fluorescence imaging
   system ( fis ); food safety; geospatial data; human-centric approach;
   hyperspectral; hyperspectral reflectance; linearly polarized ( lp ) light;
   listeria; optical ( pet ) ( opet ); pressure systems; rapid screening;
   robotic platforms; skeletal muscles; species identification; steel surfaces;
   three dimensional ( 3d ) imaging and display; time resolved fluorescence (
   trf ); visual analysis; visual analytics; imaging techniques

---

UT 396
AR Hupfer C, 2009, DTSCH LEB, V105, P95
TI Validation of a real-time PCR method for detection of sesame in foods;
   [Validierung einer Real-time PCR-Methode zum Nachweis von Sesam in
   Lebensmitteln]
AU Hupfer C; Demmel A; Busch U
TC 4
SO DTSCH LEB
PY 2009
AB as a consequence of the obligation to label the most common allergenic
   ingredients in prepacked food commodities specific analytical methods are
   necessary , which reliably allow the detection of even lowest amounts of the
   target analyte in a food sample . besides elisa based methods realtime pcr
   detection systems are currently the most important technique in food
   allergen analytics . regarding the detection of sesame a recently published
   pcr system was extensively validated inhouse and the method was supplemented
   by the development of a control reaction for pcr inhibitors . 10 copies of
   genomic sesame dna were reliably detectable . 10 mg / kg of crushed sesame
   seeds spiked in breadcrumbs as well as in rice biscuits resulted in positive
   signals . false positive signals due to cross reactions with dna originating
   from other food ingredients , especially cereals and nuts could be excluded
   by specificity tests . the successful application of the system was further
   demonstrated by analysis of commercial samples and in comparison with
   alternative detection methods .
ID sesamum indicum

---

UT 397
AR [Anonymous], 2012, BRAND, V5, P7
TI Following the food chain
TC 0
SO BRAND
PY 2012
AB a rise in tracking systems , including phone applications and analytics ,
   aims to increase food safety . the us food and drug administration s ( fda )
   food safety modernization act ( fsma ) will overhaul the domestic food
   safety . the fda will undertake two pilot projects to enhance the agency and
   industry s ability to trace products responsible for food borne illness
   outbreaks . the pilot projects will evaluate methods and technologies for
   rapid and effective tracing of foods , including types of data that are
   useful for tracing , ways to connect the various points in the supply chain
   , and how quickly the data are made available to the fda . the fda will
   initiate rulemaking on recordkeeping requirements for high risk foods to
   facilitate tracing after these projects are completed and additional data is
   gathered .
ID supply chains; food chain; foodborne illness; phone applications; pilot
   projects; recordkeeping; tracking system; us food and drug administration;
   food safety

---

UT 398
AR Guthausen G, 2016, TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM, V83, P103, DOI
   10.1016/j.trac.2016.02.011
TI Analysis of food and emulsions
AU Guthausen G
TC 37
SO TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM
PY 2016
AB compact nmr is widely applied in food science , technology and industry .
   the applications and studies of low field nmr can be classified into the
   different modalities of nmr , namely relaxation , diffusion measurement ,
   spectroscopy and imaging . these underlying principles of nmr are used in
   various fields of food analytics , classically mainly in quality control ,
   nowadays increasingly in process analytics and chemical composition
   determination . the basic concepts are summarized together with examples for
   application of compact nmr in food and emulsion systems
DE emulsion; food; imaging; low field nmr; online nmr; relaxation; spectroscopy
ID chemical analysis; emulsification; emulsions; food products; imaging
   techniques; spectroscopy; basic concepts; chemical compositions; diffusion
   measurements; emulsion systems; food science; low field nmr; relaxation;
   underlying principles; amplitude modulation; ash; body fat; emulsion; fat
   content; food analysis; lipid composition; magnetism; measurement accuracy;
   nuclear magnetic resonance; online system; priority journal; protein
   content; quality control; review; signal noise ratio; water content; quality
   control

---

UT 399
AR Luo C, 2015, ADV J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V9, P192, DOI 10.19026/ajfst.9.1991
TI Consumer behavior analysis of green food
AU Luo C; Tong G; Pan Y; Yang S
TC 0
SO ADV J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2015
AB this study uses empirical research methods , based on detailed analysis of
   the food transaction big data . it use descriptive statistical method to
   analyze the current situation of cognitive and behavioral characteristics of
   the green food and it conducted data mining of factors affecting consumer
   buying green food . multiple linear regression analysis have shown that the
   price factor is an important factor affecting consumer buying green food ,
   next are food quality and health awareness and product awareness is one of
   the small degree of influence . however , the convenience of purchase has no
   significant effect on buying green food . at last , this study aiming
   factors that affect consumer purchasing choice , proposed some suggestions
   to expand the eco labeling of food consumption . maxwell scientific
   organization , 2015 .
DE consumer behavior; factors; green food; green purchase; property of value
ID big data; data mining; food supply; labels; linear regression; purchasing;
   quality control; regression analysis; sales; cognitive and behavioral
   characteristics; current situation; empirical research method; factors; food
   consumption; green foods; multiple linear regression analysis; property of
   value; consumer behavior

---

UT 400
AR Ma Y/1, 2016, PROC IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA ANAL ICBDA, DOI
   10.1109/ICBDA.2016.7509812
TI Research of food safety risk assessment methods based on big data
AU Ma Y/1; Hou Y; Liu Y/8; Xue Y/1
TC 19
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA ANAL ICBDA
PY 2016
AB the risk of food safety is serious in china , there are more and more food
   safety problems involving complex application of big data . the food safety
   risk assessment under the background of big data is an important issue . the
   paper takes dairy productions as an example to explain a method of dairy
   productions risk assessment using parallel support vector machine in the big
   data platform . we establish big data platform firstly , parallel the
   cascade support vector machine in the big data platform to obtain the
   assessment model secondly and get assessment results by data process
   according to the features of real time data at last . the results of
   experiments show that big data platform can process dairy productions big
   data real time . the accuracy of dairy productions safety assessment has
   improved
DE big data; food safety risk assessment; the cascade svm
ID data handling; food safety; information analysis; risk assessment; safety
   engineering; support vector machines; assessment models; cascade svm;
   complex applications; data platform; real time; real time data; safety
   assessments; big data

---

UT 401
AR Chu C-M, 2009, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V22, P718, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2009.03.005
TI Quality assurance with an informatics auditing process for Food Composition
   Tables
AU Chu C-M; Lee M-S; Hsu Y-H; Yu H-L; Wu T-Y; Chang S-C; Lyu L-C; Chou F-J;
   Shao Y-P; Wahlqvist ML
TC 4
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2009
AB a 6-step auditing process was developed to detect unlikely nutrient values
   in a nutrient composition data bank for foods ( ncdbf ) in taiwan .
   preference was given to finding errors in the database , rather than to
   determining significant differences in the biological characteristics of the
   individual nutrients . there were 239 compositionally similar subgroups
   categorized within the ncdbf . the coefficient of variation ( cv ) of
   nutrient values for each subgroup provided the first order sorting
   instrument . nutrient cvs were ranked in rows for food subgroup ( x ) and in
   columns for nutrient type ( y ) and their product ( x , y ) in descending
   order . when the rank was in the top 2 or the product was 20 , the excel '
   cell ' was regarded as a ' hit ' . the ' hit rate ' ( 2.6 % , 777
   hits/29,424 pieces of information ) of the computerized analysis was
   verified through an expert panel review to provide a ' satisfied hit rate (
   shr ) ' ( agreed errors / total food group hits ) . the mean shr was 14.9 %
   ( range : 1.4 % -37.6 % ) for the various food groups . the computerized
   process performed with a 38-fold increase in likelihood of error detection
   compared with what manual assessment alone would have produced . this low
   cost approach could be applied in various jurisdictions or with other
   digitized food composition tables
DE auditing process; coefficient of variation; compositional similarity; food
   composition; food composition database; food subgroups; food variety;
   quality assurance; taiwan

---

UT 402
AR Liu C/4, 2018, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V10960 LNCS, P231, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-95162-1_16
TI A platform for exploring social media analytics of fast food restaurants in
   Australia
AU Liu C/4; Sinnott RO
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2018
AB social media is one of the primary communication tools for internet users .
   twitter , one of the most popular social medias , has more than one hundred
   million daily active users . these tweeters tweet a large number of tweets
   every day containing a rich and diverse collection of information . at the
   same time , the problem of obesity is becoming a serious issue all over the
   world . in this paper , we consider the impact of the geographical location
   of fast food restaurant on the body mass index ( bmi ) and levels of obesity
   of individuals in melbourne through data analytics around social media .
   springer international publishing ag , part of springer nature 2018 .
DE content analysis; fast food restaurant; social media; twitter
ID nutrition; body mass index; communication tools; content analysis; fast food
   restaurants; geographical locations; social media; social media analytics;
   twitter; social networking ( online )

---

UT 403
AR Kolak M, 2018, DATA BR, V21, P2482, DOI 10.1016/j.dib.2018.11.014
TI Chicago supermarket data and food access analytics in census tract
   shapefiles for 2007–2014
AU Kolak M; Bradley M; Block D; Pool L; Garg G; Toman CK; Boatright K; Lipiszko
   D; Koschinsky J; Kershaw K; Carnethon M; Isakova T; Wolf M
TC 11
SO DATA BR
PY 2018
AB longitudinal analysis of supermarkets over time is essential to
   understanding the dynamics of foodscape environments for healthy living .
   supermarkets for 2007 , 2011 , and 2014 for the city of chicago were curated
   and further validated . the average distance to all supermarkets along the
   street network was constructed for each resident populated census tract .
   these analytic results were generated with gis software and stored as
   spatially enabled data files , facilitating further research and analysis .
   the data presented in this article are related to the research article
   entitled ' urban foodscape trends : disparities in healthy food access in
   chicago , 20072014 ' ( kolak et al . , 2018 )
ID retail stores; average distance; census tracts; chicago; datafiles; gis
   software; healthy foods; longitudinal analysis; research and analysis;
   street network; surveys

---

UT 404
AR Dass SC, 2017, FOOD PROT TRENDS, V37, P368
TI Food factory genomics: Where big data drives quality and food safety
AU Dass SC; Anandappa A
TC 4
SO FOOD PROT TRENDS
PY 2017
AB recent advances in tools for use in molecular genetics have opened new doors
   for developing safer foods . more information is available not only about
   the essence of the composition of our foods but also about the genetics of
   the unseen microbial world that influences the safety and quality of our
   food . microbial analysis is an integral part of maintaining food quality
   and safety from farm to table . isolation , enumeration and cultural methods
   have long been the pillars of the methodology that food microbiologists use
   to measure quality and safety parameters . although they are powerful tools
   , they are time consuming and cumbersome , making it difficult to keep pace
   with the rapid advances in molecular genetics . moreover , the need for
   rapid turnaround in pathogen detection , especially with regard to potential
   production failures , can be expensive when business processes are slowed by
   the observation time for a microbial colony s growth . genomic sequencing
   technologies have revolutionized the availability of information , giving
   depth to our understanding of the microbiological world , and food factories
   are ripe for using this information to use their testing budgets more
   efficiently . we outline some of the principles of genomic tools that might
   benefit the intelligent factory of the future .

---

UT 405
AR Bianchi-Aguiar T, 2016, INTERFACES, V46, P424, DOI 10.1287/inte.2016.0859
TI Using analytics to enhance a food retailer's shelf-space management
AU Bianchi-Aguiar T; Silva E; Guimarães L; Carravilla MA; Oliveira JF; Amaral
   JG; Liz J; Lapela S
TC 28
SO INTERFACES
PY 2016
AB this paper describes the results of our collaboration with the leading
   portuguese food retailer to address the shelf space planning problem of
   allocating products to shop floor shelves . our challenge was to introduce
   analytical methods into the shelf space planning process to improve the
   return on space and automate a process heavily dependent on the experience
   of the retailer s space managers . this led to the creation of gap , a
   decision support system that the company s space management team uses daily
   . we developed a modular operations research approach that systematically
   applies mathematical programming models and heuristics to determine the best
   layout of products on the shelves . gap combines its analytical strength
   with an ability to incorporate different types of merchandising rules to
   balance the tradeoff between optimization and customization . 2016 informs .
DE mathematical programming; mip-based heuristics; retail operations; shelf-
   space allocation

---

UT 406
AR Dubé L, 2014, ANN YORK ACAD SCI, V1331, P278, DOI 10.1111/nyas.12595
TI A nutrition/health mindset on commercial Big Data and drivers of food demand
   in modern and traditional systems
AU Dubé L; Labban A; Moubarac J-C; Heslop G; Ma Y/3; Paquet C
TC 39
SO ANN YORK ACAD SCI
PY 2014
AB building greater reciprocity between traditional and modern food systems and
   better convergence of human and economic development outcomes may enable the
   production and consumption of accessible , affordable , and appealing
   nutritious food for all . information being key to such transformations ,
   this roadmap paper offers a strategy that capitalizes on big data and
   advanced analytics , setting the foundation for an integrative intersectoral
   knowledge platform to better inform and monitor behavioral change and
   ecosystem transformation . building upon the four p s of marketing ( product
   , price , promotion , placement ) , we examine digital commercial marketing
   data through the lenses of the four a s of food security ( availability ,
   accessibility , affordability , appeal ) using advanced consumer choice
   analytics for archetypal traditional ( fresh fruits and vegetables ) and
   modern ( soft drinks ) product categories . we demonstrate that business
   practices typically associated with the latter also have an important , if
   not more important , impact on purchases of the former category .
   implications and limitations of the approach are discussed . 2014 new york
   academy of sciences .
DE big data; food purchase; malnutrition burden; marketing; modern food
   systems; traditional food systems
ID choice behavior; commerce; consumer behavior; data collection; decision
   making; food; food habits; food preferences; food supply; fruit; health;
   health status; marketing; nutritional status; population surveillance;
   reproducibility of results; vegetables; article; behavior change; commercial
   phenomena; consumer; decision making; decision support system; driver;
   ecosystem; food; food security; fruit; health; human; information;
   knowledge; marketing; monitoring; nutrition; catering service; consumer
   attitude; economics; feeding behavior; food; food preference; fruit; health;
   health status; health survey; information processing; nutritional status;
   reproducibility; vegetable

---

UT 407
AR Benbernou S, 2019, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA, P5165, DOI
   10.1109/BigData47090.2019.9005627
TI QualiFood: An Intelligent Quality Food Evaluation Using Logical
   Satisfiability Reasoning on Spark
AU Benbernou S; Ouziri M
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA
PY 2019
AB there is an urgent need to address unhealthy dietary patterns for people .
   therefore , having a high food quality is essential to health by adopting
   good eating habits . furthermore , the evaluation of food quality is complex
   because it needs huge numbers of information related to food , for example
   its ingredients , the environmental conditions of food productions , the
   consumer state of health . such information are scattered on multiple and
   non communicating systems including food producer systems , open data ,
   medical data , etc . applying the semantic to a very large collection of
   information from different data sources can highly contribute to enhance the
   food quality score . hence , it will improve the individual diet / health by
   giving adequate nutritional recommendation and avoiding inconsistent food
   mixing by following set of rules . in this paper , we propose an intelligent
   and scalable approach to ensuring the food quality for meal healthiness
   query answering over big data related to food in a distributed way on a
   spark ecosystem . for that , the cleaning inconsistent and contradictory big
   data approach is built by following the steps ( 1 ) modeling the consistency
   rules including inference and inconsistent rules ( 2 ) detecting
   inconsistency through rule evaluation on apache spark framework to discover
   the minimally subset of inconsistent data ( 3 ) cleaning the inconsistency
   through finding the cleaned meals for consistent query answering
DE big data; data cleaning; food quality; logical satisfiability reasoning;
   owl; rdf ( s )
ID big data; cleaning; formal logic; medical information systems; nutrition;
   open data; semantic web; semantics; consistent query answering; data
   cleaning; environmental conditions; food quality; inconsistent data;
   intelligent qualities; rdf ( s ); satisfiability; quality control

---

UT 408
AR Fu H, 2020, PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT, P14558,
   DOI 10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.01458
TI MCEN: Bridging Cross-Modal Gap between Cooking Recipes and Dish Images with
   Latent Variable Model
AU Fu H; Wu R; Liu C/1; Sun J/3
TC 63
SO PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT
PY 2020
AB nowadays , driven by the increasing concern on diet and health , food
   computing has attracted enormous attention from both industry and research
   community . one of the most popular research topics in this domain is food
   retrieval , due to its profound influence on health oriented applications .
   in this paper , we focus on the task of cross modal retrieval between food
   images and cooking recipes . we present modality consistent embedding
   network ( mcen ) that learns modality invariant representations by
   projecting images and texts to the same embedding space . to capture the
   latent alignments between modalities , we incorporate stochastic latent
   variables to explicitly exploit the interactions between textual and visual
   features . importantly , our method learns the cross modal alignments during
   training but computes embeddings of different modalities independently at
   inference time for the sake of efficiency . extensive experimental results
   clearly demonstrate that the proposed mcen outperforms all existing
   approaches on the benchmark recipe1m dataset and requires less computational
   cost
ID alignment; embeddings; pattern recognition; stochastic systems;
   computational costs; embedding network; invariant representation; latent
   variable; latent variable modeling; research communities; research topics;
   visual feature; cooking

---

UT 409
AR Jin Q/1, 2018, PROC INT CONF COMPUT IND ENG CIE, V2018-December
TI Big data analytics for food cold-chain logistics: Challenges and
   opportunities
AU Jin Q/1; Peng T
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF COMPUT IND ENG CIE
PY 2018
AB in recent years , food safety and quality has attracted serious public
   attentions . increasingly diverse demands of food , in particularly , fresh
   food rely on efficient and reliable logistics operations . cold chain
   logistics is regarded as the means to meet such demands . it aims for
   rigorous timeliness , committed quality , and regulatory compliance with
   interdisciplinary science and technology developments . the players in a
   cold chain logistics need a cost effective solution to tackle the challenge
   of keeping high quality food and operating timely delivery . multi source
   data are required to be collected , integrated and managed , which forms a
   big data space to support different applications and decision making
   processes . in this paper , a global scenario of cold chain logistics is
   first depicted . big data and its key analytical methods are reviewed , then
   discussed with a study example of fruits and vegetables cold chain logistics
   . in this example , four sources of big data . i . e . product , environment
   , logistics and market , to be collected are summarized , and a graphical
   model for its analysis are presented . the contribution of this paper is the
   identification of four open challenges , that is data acquisition techniques
   , real time data transferring and integration , data ownership and security
   , and effective method deployment , for the deployment of cold chain
   logistics . the research on developing better infrastructure , smooth
   information chain and dynamic routing will seize the opportunities that
   brought by big data analytics
DE agricultural product; bio data; cold chain logistics; data analytics; food
   safety
ID big data; cost effectiveness; data acquisition; data analytics; decision
   making; food safety; regulatory compliance; bio data; cold chain logistics;
   data analytics; food cold chains; food quality; food safety; fresh food;
   logistic operations; science and technology; science development;
   agricultural products

---

UT 410
AR Kāle M, 2020, CEUR WORK PROC, V2612, P51
TI Tracing complexity in food blogging entries
AU Kāle M; Agbozo E
TC 2
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2020
AB within this paper , we focus on the concept of complexity and how it is
   represented in food blogging entries on twitter . we turn specific attention
   to complexity capture when looking at healthy foods , focusing on food
   blogging entries that entail the notions of health / healthiness / healthy .
   we do so because we consider that complexity manifests hedonism that is the
   irrational determinant of food choice above rational considerations of
   nutrition and healthiness . using text as a platform for our analysis , we
   derive bigrams and topic models that illustrate the frequencies of words and
   bi grams , thus , pointing our attention to current discourse in food
   blogging entries on twitter . the results show that , contrary to complexity
   , that the dominating characteristics in healthy food domain are easiness
   and speed of preparation , however , rational and health related
   considerations may not always take precedence when the choice is determined
   . food blogging entries show surprisingly little account of healthy food as
   being tasty and enjoyable . with this we aim to contribute to the knowledge
   of how to shape more healthy consumer behaviors . having discovered the
   scarcity of hedonic connotations , this work invites for further research in
   text based information about food
DE bigram; complexity; food blog; food computing; hedonism; social media; word
   association
ID consumer behavior; nutrition; social networking ( online ); bigrams;
   blogging; healthy foods; text-based information; topic model; blogs

---

UT 411
AR Irani Z, 2018, COMP OPER RES, V98, P367, DOI 10.1016/j.cor.2017.10.007
TI Managing food security through food waste and loss: Small data to big data
AU Irani Z; Sharif AM; Lee H/3; Aktas E; Topaloğlu Z; van't Wout T; Huda S
TC 149
SO COMP OPER RES
PY 2018
AB this paper provides a management perspective of organizational factors that
   contributes to the reduction of food waste through the application of design
   science principles to explore causal relationships between food distribution
   ( organizational ) and consumption ( societal ) factors . qualitative data
   were collected with an organizational perspective from commercial food
   consumers along with large scale food importers , distributors , and
   retailers . because effect models are built and ' what if ' simulations are
   conducted through the development and application of a fuzzy cognitive map (
   fcm ) approaches to elucidate dynamic interrelationships . the simulation
   models developed provide a practical insight into existing and emergent food
   losses scenarios , suggesting the need for big data sets to allow for
   generalizable findings to be extrapolated from a more detailed quantitative
   exercise . this research offers itself as evidence to support policy makers
   in the development of policies that facilitate interventions to reduce food
   losses . it also contributes to the literature through sustaining ,
   impacting and potentially improving levels of food security , underpinned by
   empirically constructed policy models that identify potential behavioral
   changes . it is the extension of these simulation models set against a
   backdrop of a proposed big data framework for food security , where this
   study sets avenues for future research for others to design and construct
   big data research in food supply chains . this research has therefore sought
   to provide policymakers with a means to evaluate new and existing policies ,
   while also offering a practical basis through which food chains can be made
   more resilient through the consideration of management practices and policy
   decisions
DE big data framework; design science; food loss; food security; food waste;
   fuzzy cognitive map ( fcm ); interrelationships; qatar
ID cognitive systems; decision making; design; food supply; fuzzy rules; supply
   chains; waste management; design science; food loss; food security; food
   waste; fuzzy cognitive map; interrelationships; qatar; big data

---

UT 412
AR Lusk JL, 2017, J AGRIC ECON, V99, P303, DOI 10.1093/ajae/aaw110
TI Consumer research with big data: Applications from the food demand survey
   (foods)
AU Lusk JL
TC 74
SO J AGRIC ECON
PY 2017
AB in three separate studies based on data from the food demand survey ( foods
   ) , which has been conducted monthly for over three years , this paper
   explores heterogeneity in preference across consumers in traditional demand
   systems , heterogeneity in preferences over time in choice experiments , and
   the tail of the distribution for a particular food consumption pattern
   vegetarianism . results show that elasticities of demand for food at home
   and food away from home vary widely across different groups of consumers
   defined by a priori cluster analysis based on demographic and attitudinal
   variables . results from a choice experiment are found to depend on when the
   experiment was conducted and on the market prices prevailing at the time of
   the survey . given the large sample of consumers observed over time , there
   is sufficient data to demographically characterize a small portion of the
   population vegetarians using traditional logit models and a machine learning
   method a classifications tree . the authors 2017 .
DE big data; cart; choice experiment; cluster analysis; demand system; food at
   home; food away from home; machine learning; vegetarianism
ID cluster analysis; consumption behavior; demand analysis; food market; food
   preference; heterogeneity; machine learning; research work

---

UT 413
AR Shimmura T, 2020, SERV ENG GASTRON SCI INTERDISCIP APPROACH FOOD STUDY, P1,
   DOI 10.1007/978-981-15-5321-9
TI Service engineering for gastronomic sciences: An interdisciplinary approach
   for food study
AU Shimmura T; Nonaka T; Kunieda S
TC 0
SO SERV ENG GASTRON SCI INTERDISCIP APPROACH FOOD STUDY
PY 2020
AB this pioneering book on food study pursues an interdisciplinary approach to
   service science and the service engineering field . further , it highlights
   a range of experiments conducted at actual business sites to verify the
   effectiveness of the proposed methodologies and theories . in modern society
   , food study has become more complex , as it involves multiple fields of
   science . for instance , a long lived society entails a number of problems
   for human beings . a balanced intake of nutrients is important for a healthy
   life , but in many cases , healthy food is not the most enjoyable . as such
   , it is important for the food industry to provide foods that are both tasty
   and wholesome , based on the sciences of gastronomy and nutrition .
   conventional food study proceeds along the lines of a specific field such as
   nutrition , agriculture , or gastronomy , though it should be conducted in
   an interdisciplinary manner . this book covers multifaceted research on food
   study to respond to today s societal demands , based mainly on the natural
   and social sciences . it addresses a wide range of topics , including : food
   production management using mathematical modeling , operations research ,
   and production engineering . evaluation of food products based on big data
   analysis . psychological experiments and ethnography . food products based
   on consumer behavior . organoleptic assessment and health improvement .
   design of physical dining environments using virtual reality , pedestrian
   debt recognition ( human indoor position measuring ) , and observation of
   behavior . reporting on and assessing many studies conducted at actual
   business locations , the book offers a unique and highly practical resource
   . springer nature singapore pte ltd . 2020 .
DE data mining; employee analysis; ethnomethodology; food study; indoor
   positioning measurement; integrate system design; operations research;
   process design; service engineering; value evaluation

---

UT 414
AR Wang H/7, 2019, PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT,
   V2019-June, P11564, DOI 10.1109/CVPR.2019.01184
TI Learning cross-modal embeddings with adversarial networks for cooking
   recipes and food images
AU Wang H/7; Sahoo D; Liu C/1; Lim E-P; Hoi SCH
TC 135
SO PROC IEEE COMPUT SOC CONF COMPUT VIS PATTERN RECOGNIT
PY 2019
AB food computing is playing an increasingly important role in human daily life
   , and has found tremendous applications in guiding human behavior toward
   smart food consumption and healthy lifestyle . an important task under the
   food computing umbrella is retrieval , which is particularly helpful for
   health related applications , where we are interested in retrieving
   important information about food ( e . g . , ingredients , nutrition , etc .
   ) . in this paper , we investigate an open research task of cross modal
   retrieval between cooking recipes and food images , and propose a novel
   framework adversarial cross modal embedding ( acme ) to resolve the cross
   modal retrieval task in food domains . specifically , the goal is to learn a
   common embedding feature space between the two modalities , in which our
   approach consists of several novel ideas : ( i ) learning by using a new
   triplet loss scheme together with an effective sampling strategy , ( ii )
   imposing modality alignment using an adversarial learning strategy , and (
   iii ) imposing cross modal translation consistency such that the embedding
   of one modality is able to recover some important information of
   corresponding instances in the other modality . acme achieves the state of
   the art performance on the benchmark recipe1m dataset , validating the
   efficacy of the proposed technique
DE big data; biological and cell microscopy; categorization; large-scale
   methods; medical; others; recognition detection; retrieval
ID behavioral research; benchmarking; big data; computer vision; embeddings;
   food supply; importance sampling; categorization; medical; others;
   retrieval; scale method; cooking

---

UT 415
AR Nag N, 2019, MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED
   MM, P60, DOI 10.1145/3347448.3357169
TI Flavour enhanced food recommendation
AU Nag N; Rao AN; Kulhalli A; Mehta KS; Bhattacharya N; Ramkumar P; Bharadwaj
   A; Sitaram D; Jain R
TC 3
SO MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2019
AB we propose a mechanism to use the features of favor to enhance the quality
   of food recommendations . an empirical method to determine the favor of food
   is incorporated into a recommendation engine based onmajor gustatory nerves
   . such asystem has advantages of suggesting food items that the user is more
   likely to enjoy based upon matching with their favor profile through use of
   the taste biological domain knowledge . this preliminary intends to spark
   more robust mechanisms by which flavor of food is taken into consideration
   as a major feature set into food recommendation systems . our long term
   vision is to integrate this with health factors to recommend healthy and
   tasty food to users to enhance quality of life
DE flavor; flavor; food computing; gustatory media; personal health navigation;
   recommendation systems; taste
ID flavors; biological domain; empirical method; food computing; gustatory
   media; long term vision; personal health; robust mechanisms; taste;
   recommender systems

---

UT 416
AR Cappellesso G, 2019, BR FOOD J, V121, P2413, DOI 10.1108/BFJ-03-2019-0160
TI Technological innovation in food supply chains: systematic literature review
AU Cappellesso G; Thomé KM
TC 34
SO BR FOOD J
PY 2019
AB purpose : the purpose of this paper is to systematically review the
   literature on innovation and the food supply chain to synthesize and explore
   their interactions , determining what it is known and what gaps there are in
   the knowledge regarding these subjects . design / methodology / approach : a
   systematic review of technological innovation and the food supply chain was
   conducted based on the methodi ordinatio protocol . this method seeks to
   select and rank papers according to their scientific relevance . findings :
   this study has highlighted the importance of research focused on specific
   matters , such as food packaging , integration , big data and bio economy .
   considering the stages of innovation , the portfolio has focused mainly on
   innovations generation . as for adoption , the multiple obstacles
   responsible for the few successful innovations were highlighted . adopting
   these innovations has become complex , with a high level of failure and
   several critical points , ranging from the level of research to acceptance
   and purchase , with consumer indifference and even negative positions toward
   innovation . originality / value : this paper contributes to the debate
   about innovations in the food supply chain , providing a research agenda
DE supply chain; systematic review; technological innovation
ID adoption; adult; big data; catering service; consumer; economic aspect;
   female; food packaging; human; male; review; systematic review

---

UT 417
AR Jiang L/2, 2020, IEEE ACCESS, V8, P47477, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2973625
TI DeepFood: Food Image Analysis and Dietary Assessment via Deep Model
AU Jiang L/2; Qiu B; Liu X/5; Huang C; Lin K
TC 116
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2020
AB food is essential for human life and has been the concern of many healthcare
   conventions . nowadays new dietary assessment and nutrition analysis tools
   enable more opportunities to help people understand their daily eating
   habits , exploring nutrition patterns and maintain a healthy diet . in this
   paper , we develop a deep model based food recognition and dietary
   assessment system to study and analyze food items from daily meal images ( e
   . g . , captured by smartphone ) . specifically , we propose a three step
   algorithm to recognize multi item ( food ) images by detecting candidate
   regions and using deep convolutional neural network ( cnn ) for object
   classification . the system first generates multiple region of proposals on
   input images by applying the region proposal network ( rpn ) derived from
   faster r cnn model . it then indentifies each region of proposals by mapping
   them into feature maps , and classifies them into different food categories
   , as well as locating them in the original images . finally , the system
   will analyze the nutritional ingredients based on the recognition results
   and generate a dietary assessment report by calculating the amount of
   calories , fat , carbohydrate and protein . in the evaluation , we conduct
   extensive experiments using two popular food image datasets uec food100 and
   uec food256 . we also generate a new type of dataset about food items based
   on food101 with bounding . the model is evaluated through different
   evaluation metrics . the experimental results show that our system is able
   to recognize the food items accurately and generate the dietary assessment
   report efficiently , which will benefit the users with a clear insight of
   healthy dietary and guide their daily recipe to improve body health and
   wellness
DE computer vision; dietary assessment; food computing; health; image
   recognition; nutrition analysis
ID computer vision; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks;
   health; image analysis; image recognition; mhealth; dietary assessments;
   evaluation metrics; food computing; health and wellness; multiple regions;
   nutritional ingredients; object classification; original images; nutrition

---

UT 418
AR Ji G, 2017, MATEC WEB CONF, V100, DOI 10.1051/matecconf/201710002048
TI A big data decision-making mechanism for food supply chain
AU Ji G; Tan K
TC 7
SO MATEC WEB CONF
PY 2017
AB many companies have captured and analyzed huge volumes of data to improve
   the decision mechanism of supply chain , this paper presents a big data
   harvest model that uses big data as inputs to make more informed decisions
   in the food supply chain . by introducing a method of bayesian network ,
   this paper integrates sample data and finds a because and effect between
   data to predict market demand . then the deduction graph model that
   translates foods demand into processes and divides processes into tasks and
   assets is presented , and an example of how big data in the food supply
   chain can be combined with bayesian network and deduction graph model to
   guide production decision . our conclusions indicate that the decision
   making mechanism has vast potential by extracting value from big data .
DE bayesian network; big data; deduction graph model; food supply chain
ID bayesian networks; data mining; decision making; food supply; graph theory;
   manufacture; supply chains; cause and effects; decision mechanism; decision
   making mechanisms; deduction graph; harvest model; informed decision; market
   demand; production decisions; big data

---

UT 419
AR Mujtaba DF, 2020, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V1119, P359, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-2414-1_36
TI Towards Natural Language Understanding of Procedural Text Using Recipes
AU Mujtaba DF; Mahapatra NR
TC 2
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2020
AB procedural knowledge , or how to knowledge , is the knowledge acquired from
   natural language understanding of instructions in procedural text .
   procedural knowledge bases containing textual descriptions of tasks in
   procedures have witnessed explosive growth recently . this has facilitated a
   significant body of work in various natural language understanding tasks . a
   rich source of procedural text is in the form of recipes describing food
   preparation procedures . the ready availability of online recipes has
   enabled progress in food computing , which refers to computing tasks related
   to recipes , such as food perception , recipe image recognition and calorie
   estimation , and food oriented retrieval of recipes . however , past work on
   food computing has not covered the procedural knowledge inherent in recipes
   and the natural language understanding tasks required to uncover that
   knowledge . we seek to address this by presenting an overview of recent work
   in natural language understanding tasks in food computing and describing how
   this contributes to how to knowledge and future applications
DE artificial intelligence; food computing; information extraction; natural
   language processing; natural language understanding; procedural knowledge;
   recipe representation
ID computer programming; computer science; calorie estimations; computing-task;
   explosive growth; food preparation; future applications; natural language
   understanding; procedural knowledge; textual description; image recognition

---

UT 420
AR Nogle J, 2008, AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC, P1071
TI Development of a food sensation and genotyping informatics system for the
   University of Florida Center for Smell and Taste (UFCST).
AU Nogle J; Barnes C; Henrikson E
TC 0
SO AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC
PY 2008
AB a web based database system was created to collect patient data from taste
   and other food sensation tests from multiple sites . the tool was designed
   with the flexibility do add additional tests as desired . additionally , it
   collects patient genotyping data which is imported from a genotyping
   repository . the database collects basic demographic , consent and referral
   information . it captures data from a spatial taste test , flavor perception
   test and viscosity test .
ID database management systems; databases factual; florida; food; genotype;
   humans; information storage and retrieval; internet; medical records systems
   computerized; smell; software; software design; taste; article; computer
   program; data base; factual database; food; genotype; human; information
   retrieval; internet; medical record; methodology; odor; taste; united states

---

UT 421
AR Minkiewicz P, 2016, INT J MOL SCI, V17, DOI 10.3390/ijms17122039
TI Internet databases of the properties, enzymatic reactions, and metabolism of
   small molecules—search options and applications in food science
AU Minkiewicz P; Darewicz M; Iwaniak A; Bucholska J; Starowicz P; Czyrko E
TC 24
SO INT J MOL SCI
PY 2016
AB internet databases of small molecules , their enzymatic reactions , and
   metabolism have emerged as useful tools in food science . database searching
   is also introduced as part of chemistry or enzymology courses for food
   technology students . such resources support the search for information
   about single compounds and facilitate the introduction of secondary analyzes
   of large datasets . information can be retrieved from databases by searching
   for the compound name or structure , annotating with the help of chemical
   codes or drawn using molecule editing software . data mining options may be
   enhanced by navigating through a network of links and cross links between
   databases . exemplary databases reviewed in this article belong to two
   classes : tools concerning small molecules ( including general and
   specialized databases annotating food components ) and tools annotating
   enzymes and metabolism . some problems associated with database application
   are also discussed . data summarized in computer databases may be used for
   calculation of daily intake of bioactive compounds , prediction of
   metabolism of food components , and their biological activity as well as for
   prediction of interactions between food component and drugs
DE bioinformatics; biological activity; chemical information; database
   screening; education; food informatics; similarity search; structure search;
   text search
ID computational biology; data mining; databases factual; food technology;
   internet; amino acid sequence; bioinformatics; biological activity; chemical
   structure; data base; data mining; enzyme kinetics; internet; metabolism;
   nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; physical chemistry; review; tandem mass
   spectrometry; biology; factual database; food handling; internet

---

UT 422
AR Sahoo D, 2019, PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN, P2260, DOI
   10.1145/3292500.3330734
TI FoodAI: Food image recognition via deep learning for smart food logging
AU Sahoo D; Hao W; Ke S; Xiongwei W; Le H; Achananuparp P; Lim E-P; Hoi SCH/1
TC 99
SO PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN
PY 2019
AB an important aspect of health monitoring is effective logging of food
   consumption . this can help management of diet related diseases like obesity
   , diabetes , and even cardiovascular diseases . moreover , food logging can
   help fitness enthusiasts , and people who wanting to achieve a target weight
   . however , food logging is cumbersome , and requires not only taking
   additional effort to note down the food item consumed regularly , but also
   sufficient knowledge of the food item consumed ( which is difficult due to
   the availability of a wide variety of cuisines ) . with increasing reliance
   on smart devices , we exploit the convenience offered through the use of
   smart phones and propose a smart food logging system : foodai1 , which
   offers state of the art deep learning based image recognition capabilities .
   foodai has been developed in singapore and is particularly focused on food
   items commonly consumed in singapore . foodai models were trained on a
   corpus of 400,000 food images from 756 different classes . in this paper we
   present extensive analysis and insights into the development of this system
   . foodai has been deployed as an api service and is one of the components
   powering healthy 365 , a mobile app developed by singapore s heath promotion
   board . we have over 100 registered organizations ( universities , companies
   , start ups ) subscribing to this service and actively receive several api
   requests a day . foodai has made food logging convenient , aiding smart
   consumption and a healthy lifestyle
DE food computing; image recognition; smart food logging
ID data mining; food supply; image recognition; smartphones; cardiovascular
   disease; different class; food computing; food consumption; health
   monitoring; healthy lifestyles; logging system; state of the art; deep
   learning

---

UT 423
AR Marvin HJP/1, 2017, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V57, P2286, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2016.1257481
TI Big data in food safety: An overview
AU Marvin HJP/1; Janssen EM; Bouzembrak Y; Hendriksen PJM; Staats M
TC 152
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2017
AB technology is now being developed that is able to handle vast amounts of
   structured and unstructured data from diverse sources and origins . these
   technologies are often referred to as big data , and open new areas of
   research and applications that will have an increasing impact in all sectors
   of our society . in this paper we assessed to which extent big data is being
   applied in the food safety domain and identified several promising trends .
   in several parts of the world , governments stimulate the publication on
   internet of all data generated in public funded research projects . this
   policy opens new opportunities for stakeholders dealing with food safety to
   address issues which were not possible before . application of mobile phones
   as detection devices for food safety and the use of social media as early
   warning of food safety problems are a few examples of the new developments
   that are possible due to big data . 2017 the author ( s ) . published with
   license by taylor and francis group , llc 2017 , hans j . p . marvin , esmee
   m . janssen , yamine bouzembrak , peter j . m . hendriksen , and martijn
   staats .
DE big data; database; food safety; new technologies
ID access to information; automatic data processing; databases as topic; food
   safety; food supply; humans; information dissemination; information storage
   and retrieval; internet; online systems; database systems; food safety;
   detection device; early warning; research and application; social media;
   unstructured data; access to information; catering service; data base; food
   safety; human; information dissemination; information processing;
   information retrieval; internet; online system; standards; big data

---

UT 424
AR Radu AI, 2016, ANAL, V141, P4447, DOI 10.1039/c6an00390g
TI Toward food analytics: Fast estimation of lycopene and β-carotene content in
   tomatoes based on surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS)
AU Radu AI; Ryabchykov O; Bocklitz TW; Huebner U; Weber K; Cialla-May D; Popp J
TC 43
SO ANAL
PY 2016
AB carotenoids are molecules that play important roles in both plant
   development and in the well being of mammalian organisms . therefore ,
   various studies have been performed to characterize carotenoids properties ,
   distribution in nature and their health benefits upon ingestion .
   nevertheless , there is a gap regarding a fast detection of them at the
   plant phase . within this contribution we report the results obtained
   regarding the application of surface enhanced raman spectroscopy ( sers )
   toward the differentiation of two carotenoid molecules ( namely , lycopene
   and -carotene ) in tomato samples . to this end , an e beam lithography (
   ebl ) sers active substrate and a 488 nm excitation source were employed ,
   and a relevant simulated matrix was prepared ( by mixing the two carotenoids
   in defined percentages ) and measured . next , carotenoids were extracted
   from tomato plants and measured as well . finally , a combination of
   principal component analysis and partial least squares regression ( pca plsr
   ) was applied to process the data , and the obtained results were compared
   with hplc measurements of the same extracts . a good agreement was obtained
   between the hplc and the sers results for most of the tomato samples . 2016
   the royal society of chemistry .
ID beta carotene; carotenoids; food analysis; lycopersicon esculentum; spectrum
   analysis raman; beta carotene; carotenoid; lycopene; chemistry; food
   analysis; procedures; raman spectrometry; tomato

---

UT 425
AR Danezis GP, 2016, CURR OPIN FOOD SCI, V10, P22, DOI
   10.1016/j.cofs.2016.07.003
TI Food authentication: state of the art and prospects
AU Danezis GP; Tsagkaris AS; Brusic V; Georgiou CA
TC 171
SO CURR OPIN FOOD SCI
PY 2016
AB food authentication is analytical process that validates label information
   about the food origin and production process . this review discusses
   emerging food authenticity indicators including rare earth elements ,
   metabolic profiles , sensory profile evaluation , and microbial
   fingerprinting . a scientometric evaluation that highlights research trends
   and emerging approaches of this evolving field is presented . we analyzed
   and provided an insight into most commonly studied food types and drinks and
   highlighted the most promising authenticity markers for each major group .
   finally , we discussed the data explosion that is emerging and discussed the
   developing trends in the field . the future of food authentication lies in
   big data since we are already collecting and analyzing huge amounts of data
   that converge from multiple sources . big data analytics will include
   standardization of experiments , study design workflows , and of data
   reporting . emerging data analytical tools will include integration of
   geographic information systems with climate information systems and
   metabolomics databases for precise spatio temporal identification of food
   origin

---

UT 426
AR Polychronou I, 2020, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V554 IFIP, P165, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-39815-6_16
TI Machine Learning Algorithms for Food Intelligence: Towards a Method for More
   Accurate Predictions
AU Polychronou I; Katsivelis P; Papakonstantinou M; Stoitsis G; Manouselis N
TC 4
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB it is evident that machine learning algorithms are being widely impacting
   industrial applications and platforms . beyond typical research
   experimentation scenarios , there is a need for companies that wish to
   enhance their online data and analytics solutions to incorporate ways in
   which they can select , experiment , benchmark , parameterise and choose the
   version of a machine learning algorithm that seems to be most appropriate
   for their specific application context . in this paper , we describe such a
   need for a big data platform that supports food data analytics and
   intelligence . more specifically , we introduce agroknow s big data platform
   and identify the need to extend it with a flexible and interactive
   experimentation environment where different machine learning algorithms can
   be tested using a variation of synthetic and real data . a typical usage
   scenario is described , based on our need to experiment with various machine
   learning algorithms to support price prediction for food products and
   ingredients . the initial requirements for an experimentation environment
   are also introduced
DE big data; data analytics; deep learning; experimentation method; machine
   learning
ID benchmarking; big data; computer software; data analytics; deep learning;
   food products; learning systems; accurate prediction; application contexts;
   data platform; experimentation environments; experimentation method; price
   prediction; synthetic and real data; usage scenarios; learning algorithms

---

UT 427
AR Irfan M, 2019, BR FOOD J, V121, P2708, DOI 10.1108/BFJ-02-2019-0131
TI Data-driven capabilities, supply chain integration and competitive
   performance: Evidence from the food and beverages industry in Pakistan
AU Irfan M; Wang M/2
TC 47
SO BR FOOD J
PY 2019
AB purpose : the purpose of this paper is to analyze the effects of data driven
   capabilities on supply chain integration ( sci ) and competitive performance
   of firms in the food and beverages ( f and b ) industry in pakistan . design
   / methodology / approach : the authors adopt the structural equation
   modeling approach to test the proposed hypotheses using amos 23. survey data
   were collected from 240 firms in the f and b industry in pakistan . findings
   : the results revealed that sci ( i . e . internal integration ( ii ) and
   external integration ( ei ) ) significantly mediates the effect of data
   driven capabilities ( i . e . flexible information technology resources and
   data assimilation ) on a firm s competitive performance . in addition to the
   direct effects , ii also has an indirect effect on competitive performance
   through ei . practical implications : the study has several implications for
   managers in the context of big data application in food supply chain
   management ( fscm ) in a developing country context . the study posits that
   firms can achieve excellence in performance by governing data driven supply
   chain operations . the study also has implications for distributors and
   importers in the f and b industry . the cloud based sharing of data can
   improve the operational performance of channel members while reducing their
   overall cost of operations . in practice , food franchises largely get the
   advantage of shared resources of their suppliers in managing orders ,
   payments , inventory and after sales services . originality / value : the
   study is novel and deepens the understanding about the use of big data in
   fscm keeping in view the industry trends and stakeholder s priorities in a
   developing country context
DE data-driven capability; food and beverages industry; pakistan; resource-
   based view; supply chain integration
ID article; big data; catering service; developing country; human; information
   technology; manager; pakistan; structural equation modeling

---

UT 428
AR Lampen A, 2004, DTSCH TIERARZTL WOCHENSCHR, V111, P292
TI Future aspects of food safety: Genes, molecular mechanisms and test systems;
   [Lebensmittelsicherheit in der Zukunft: Gene, molekulare Mechanismen und
   Testsysteme]
AU Lampen A
TC 0
SO DTSCH TIERARZTL WOCHENSCHR
PY 2004
AB the idenfication of the human genome makes it possible to investigate
   complex biological issues with new molecular techniques .
   platformtechnologies such as dna arrays or 2-d gelelectrophoresis combined
   with mass spectrometry will make it possible to have a faster look from gene
   to the protein and to find new target genes of compounds as well as new
   molecular mechanisms involved . the knownledge about complex molecular
   signaling pathways will give a real impact to new diagnostics in food
   analytics . as an example reporter gene assays as screening methods in the
   diagnostic of food contaminants will be discussed . additionally , another
   example , the novel food will be discussed because the molecular techniques
   will improve diagnostics and the risk assessment of novel foods .
DE food safety; genes; molecular techniques
ID animals; consumer product safety; food contamination; genome; humans; mass
   screening; molecular diagnostic techniques; oligonucleotide array sequence
   analysis; article; dna microarray; food analysis; food contamination; food
   safety; gene identification; human genome; mass spectrometry; reporter gene;
   risk assessment; screening; two-dimensional electrophoresis

---

UT 429
AR Ochiai K, 2015, NEC TECH J, V10, P83
TI Predictive analytics solution for fresh food demand using heterogeneous
   mixture learning technology
AU Ochiai K
TC 6
SO NEC TECH J
PY 2015
AB nec s demand predictive order automation solution uses our original '
   heterogeneous mixture learning technology ' to provide highly accurate
   forecasting of demand for fresh food by analyzing the correlative
   relationships between various factors such as sales performance by time slot
   , what goods are discarded or sold out , as well as weather information .
   this solution automatically orders the optimal amount of goods based on the
   predicted demand , the inventory at retail stores , and the number of goods
   that are scheduled for delivery . by optimizing the order amount , it
   minimizes overstocking and understocking , and contributes to a more
   efficient ordering process .
DE automatic ordering; big data; data mining; fresh food; heterogeneous mixture
   learning; machine learning; predictive analytics
ID artificial intelligence; big data; data mining; learning systems; mixtures;
   retail stores; automatic ordering; automation solutions; correlative
   relationship; fresh food; heterogeneous mixtures; learning technology;
   predictive analytics; weather information; engineering education

---

UT 430
AR Holden NM, 2018, NPJ SCI FOOD, V2, DOI 10.1038/S41538-018-0027-3
TI Review of the sustainability of food systems and transition using the
   Internet of Food
AU Holden NM; White EP; Lange MC; Oldfield TL
TC 91
SO NPJ SCI FOOD
PY 2018
AB many current food systems are unsustainable because they because significant
   resource depletion and unacceptable environmental impacts . this problem is
   so severe , it can be argued that the food eaten today is equivalent to a
   fossil resource . the transition to sustainable food systems will require
   many changes but of particular importance will be the harnessing of internet
   technology , in the form of an internet of food , which offers the chance to
   use global resources more efficiently , to stimulate rural livelihoods , to
   develop systems for resilience and to facilitate responsible governance by
   means of computation , communication , education and trade without limits of
   knowledge and access . a brief analysis of the evidence of resource
   depletion and environmental impact associated with food production and an
   outline of the limitations of tools like life cycle assessment , which are
   used to quantify the impact of food products , indicates that the ability to
   combine data across the whole system from farm to human will be required in
   order to design sustainable food systems . developing an internet of food ,
   as a precompetitive platform on which business models can be built , much
   like the internet as we currently know it , will require agreed vocabularies
   and ontologies to be able to reason and compute across the vast amounts of
   data that are becoming available . the ability to compute over large amounts
   of data will change the way the food system is analyzed and understood and
   will permit a transition to sustainable food systems

---

UT 431
AR Bordonali L, 2019, LAB CHIP, V19, P503, DOI 10.1039/c8lc01259h
TI Parahydrogen based NMR hyperpolarisation goes micro: An alveolus for small
   molecule chemosensing
AU Bordonali L; Nordin N; Fuhrer E; Mackinnon N; Korvink JG
TC 34
SO LAB CHIP
PY 2019
AB complex mixtures , commonly encountered in metabolomics and food analytics ,
   are now routinely measured by nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr )
   spectroscopy . since many samples must be measured , one dimensional proton
   ( 1d 1h ) spectroscopy is the experiment of choice . a common challenge in
   complex mixture 1h nmr spectroscopy is spectral crowding , which limits the
   assignment of molecular components to those molecules in relatively high
   abundance . this limitation is exacerbated when the sample quantity itself
   is limited and concentrations are reduced even further during sample
   preparation for routine measurement . to address these challenges , we
   report a novel microfluidic nmr platform integrating signal enhancement via
   parahydrogen induced hyperpolarisation . the platform simultaneously
   addresses the challenges of handling small sample quantities through
   microfluidics , the associated decrease in signal given the reduced sample
   quantity by signal amplification by reversible exchange ( saber ) , and
   overcoming spectral crowding by taking advantage of the chemosensing aspect
   of the saber effect . saber at the microscale is enabled by an integrated
   pdms membrane alveolus , which provides bubble free hydrogen gas contact
   with the sample solution . with this platform , we demonstrate high field
   nmr chemosensing of microliter sample volumes , nanoliter detection volumes
   , and micromolar concentrations corresponding to picomole molecular
   sensitivity . 2019 the royal society of chemistry .
ID dimethylpolysiloxanes; equipment design; hydrogen; magnetic resonance
   spectroscopy; membranes artificial; niacinamide; pyridines; electronics
   packaging; microfluidics; mixtures; molecules; hydrogen; baysilon;
   dimeticone; hydrogen; nicotinamide; pyridine; pyridine derivative; 1h nmr
   spectroscopy; detection volume; micromolar concentration; molecular
   components; nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ); sample preparation; signal
   amplifications; signal enhancement; article; control system; gas; liquid;
   magnetic field; membrane; microfluidics; polarization; priority journal;
   proton nuclear magnetic resonance; signal transduction; volume; artificial
   membrane; chemistry; devices; equipment design; nuclear magnetic resonance
   spectroscopy; nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy

---

UT 432
AR Gudjónsdóttir M, 2019, MAGN RESON CHEM, V57, P638, DOI 10.1002/mrc.4855
TI Low field NMR for quality monitoring of 3D printed surimi from cod by-
   products: Effects of the pH-shift method compared with conventional washing
AU Gudjónsdóttir M; Napitupulu RJ; Petty Kristinsson HT
TC 39
SO MAGN RESON CHEM
PY 2019
AB implementation of three dimensional ( 3d ) food printing and novel analytics
   can reduce food waste and increase utilization of seafood by products . low
   field nuclear magnetic resonance ( lf nmr ) and chemometrics were used to
   investigate the printability and characteristics of surimi pastes from cod
   by products as affected by different processing methods ( the ph shift
   method vs . conventional washing ) , addition of salt ( 0 , 1.5 , and 3 % )
   , length of cold storage ( 0 , 4 , and 7 days ) until 3d printing , and
   steam cooking . the analysis revealed two to three water populations in the
   3d printed samples . increasing the salt concentration induced myofibrillar
   swelling in the conventionally prepared surimi , whereas a more salt induced
   gelling effect was observed in the ph shift processed surimi . cooking had a
   decreasing effect on the t21 relaxation time and its corresponding apparent
   population ( a21 ) , corresponding to protein denaturation and water loss
   during cooking . increasing the salt concentration to 3 % had a protective
   effect toward water exchange between the a21 and a23 populations in the
   conventionally washed samples but more subtly in the ph shift samples .
   similar trends in relaxation parameters were observed after 4 and 7 days of
   storage , although the intermediate population a22 seemed to be most
   affected by the storage . overall lf nmr was an effective quality monitoring
   tool for the physicochemical changes occurring in the 3d printed surimi .
   the analysis showed both advantages and disadvantages of the two processing
   methods . however , it can clearly be concluded that increasing the salt
   content had a stabilizing effect on the surimi , and printing of fresh raw
   materials is recommended . 2019 john wiley and sons , ltd .
DE 3d food printing; cooking; low field nmr; ph-shift process; salting; surimi
ID 3d printing; cold storage; food storage; nuclear magnetic resonance; thermal
   processing ( foods ); washing; 3d food printing; low field; low field nmr;
   ph shifts; ph-shift process; processing method; quality monitoring; salt
   concentration; salting; surimi; swelling

---

UT 433
AR Carolan M, 2018, GEOFORUM, V90, P142, DOI 10.1016/j.geoforum.2018.02.006
TI Big data and food retail: Nudging out citizens by creating dependent
   consumers
AU Carolan M
TC 52
SO GEOFORUM
PY 2018
AB the paper takes a critical look at how food retail firms use big data ,
   looking specifically at how these techniques and technologies govern our
   ability to imagine food worlds . it does this by drawing on two sets of data
   : ( 1 ) interviews with twenty one individuals who oversaw the use of big
   data applications in a retail setting and ( 2 ) five consumer focus groups
   composed of individuals who regularly shopped at major food chains along
   colorado s front range . for reasons described below , the ' nudge '
   provides the conceptual entry point for this analysis , as these techniques
   are typically expressed through big data driven nudges . the argument begins
   by describing the nudge concept and how it is used in the context of retail
   big data . this is followed by a discussion of methods . the remainder of
   the paper discusses how big data are used to nudge consumers and the effects
   of these practices . this analysis is organized around three themes that
   emerged out of the qualitative data : path dependency , products . path
   dependency , retail . and path dependency , habitus . the paper concludes
   connecting these themes through the concept of governance , particularly by
   way of their ability to , in foucault s ( 2003 : 241 ) words , have ' the
   power to make live and let die ' worlds
DE choice; consumerism; convenience; governance; habitus; political economy
ID colorado; front range; rocky mountains; consumption behavior; dataset;
   governance approach; political economy; retailing

---

UT 434
AR Alotaik O, 2017, ANNU CONF EXPOINST IND ENG, P1490
TI Little data, big data, and food insecurity: An integrated approach
AU Alotaik O; Chellappa VS; Steadman S; Kumara S
TC 4
SO ANNU CONF EXPOINST IND ENG
PY 2017
AB a steady increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases like obesity and
   diabetes has been a major issue in healthcare . and one of the reasons that
   led to that increase is food insecurity . in 2014 , it has been estimated
   that about 14.3 % of americans were food insecure . in recent times , there
   has been an increased interest in improving accessibility to healthy and
   nutritious food among low income households , especially among children .
   improving access to food for low income households and equity of
   distribution is a major concern to food banks across the country . we
   propose systematic analytics based technique integrating little data and big
   data to address this problem . we use the central pennsylvania food bank as
   a case study to analyze the relationship between the demand for resources
   from the food bank , the physical location of the people affected and the
   demographics within the 27 counties in central pennsylvania . we also use us
   census data and usda s research on food deserts . we conclude by presenting
   results about the impact of different possible factors affecting food
   insecurity and their importance in improving accessibility to food and
   equity of distribution of resources .
DE big data; clustering; data analytics; data mining; food insecurity
ID arid regions; data mining; engineers; population statistics; transportation;
   central pennsylvania; chronic disease; clustering; data analytics; food
   insecurity; integrated approach; low incomes; physical locations; big data

---

UT 435
AR Boulos MNK, 2015, FUTUR INTERNET, V7, P372, DOI 10.3390/fi7040372
TI Towards an "internet of food": Food ontologies for the internet of things
AU Boulos MNK; Yassine A; Shirmohammadi S; Namahoot CS; Brückner M
TC 74
SO FUTUR INTERNET
PY 2015
AB automated food and drink recognition methods connect to cloud based lookup
   databases ( e . g . , food item barcodes , previously identified food images
   , or previously classified nir ( near infrared ) spectra of food and drink
   items databases ) to match and identify a scanned food or drink item , and
   report the results back to the user . however , these methods remain of
   limited value if we can not further reason with the identified food and
   drink items , ingredients and quantities / portion sizes in a proposed meal
   in various contexts . i . e . , understand from a semantic perspective their
   types , properties , and interrelationships in the context of a given user s
   health condition and preferences . in this paper , we review a number of '
   food ontologies ' , such as the food products ontology / foodpedia ( by
   kolchin and zamula ) , open food facts ( by gigandet et al . ) , foodwiki (
   ontology driven mobile safe food consumption system by celik ) , foods
   diabetes edition ( a food oriented ontology driven system by snae namahoot
   and bruckner ) , and agrovoc multilingual agricultural thesaurus ( by the un
   food and agriculture organization fao ) . these food ontologies , with
   appropriate modifications ( or as a basis , to be added to and further
   expanded ) and together with other relevant non food ontologies ( e . g . ,
   about diet sensitive disease conditions ) , can supplement the
   aforementioned lookup databases to enable progression from the mere
   automated identification of food and drinks in our meals to a more useful
   application whereby we can automatically reason with the identified food and
   drink items and their details ( quantities and ingredients / bromatological
   composition ) in order to better assist users in making the correct ,
   healthy food and drink choices for their particular health condition , age ,
   body weight / bmi ( body mass index ) , lifestyle and preferences , etc
DE diabetes; diet; food informatics; food ontologies; food scanning; health;
   internet of things; linked data; semantic web
ID agriculture; beverages; database systems; food products; food supply;
   health; infrared devices; internet; internet of things; medical problems;
   nutrition; automated identification; food and agriculture organizations;
   food consumption; food ontology; health condition; informatics; linked
   datum; recognition methods; semantic web

---

UT 436
AR Chen K, 2014, APPL MECH MATER, V536-537, P583, DOI
   10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMM.536-537.583
TI Big data based design of food safety cloud platform
AU Chen K; Tan H; Gao J/1; Lu Y/1
TC 6
SO APPL MECH MATER
PY 2014
AB food safety has been in the spotlight of the global attention . in 2013 ,
   china s food safety supervision policy was undertaken a major reform . china
   food and drug administration ( cfda ) takes over the responsibility of food
   safety management , which in the past was conducted by different government
   sectors . under this new management system , how to carry out the practical
   work has become a new issue . this paper introduces an innovative food
   safety management mode adopted by guizhou province . on the basis of latest
   information technology , food production enterprises , government , testing
   organizations and consumers are integrated into a unified food safety
   information service cloud platform . the core technology of cloud platform
   is composed of food safety knowledge system , testing management system ,
   food safety information publicity system as well as mobile application . the
   food factory inspection data , government inspection data , testing
   organization s testing data and consumer s purchasing information are
   integrated into food safety and nutrient test big data . utilizing the data
   to explore the information that is needed by all the parties , this paper
   tries to provide a solution to the risk exchange problem faced by china s
   food safety issue . at the same time , food safety problem can be solved
   through the contribution of different stakeholders . ( 2014 ) trans tech
   publications , switzerland .
DE big data food safety cloud computing
ID big data; computer applications; food safety; information services;
   information technology; purchasing; robotics; exchange problems; food and
   drug administration; food safety management; government sectors; management
   systems; mobile applications; safety information; safety supervision;
   information management

---

UT 437
AR Volpentesta AP/1, 2017, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V506, P725, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-65151-4_65
TI Intelligent food information provision to consumers in an internet of food
   era
AU Volpentesta AP/1; Felicetti AM/1; Ammirato S
TC 18
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2017
AB food information is a crucial tool for facilitating consumers in decision
   making activities related to their consumption process . recent advances in
   ' internet of food ' technologies ( such as food sensors , cloud computing ,
   food data analysis , and mobile app technologies ) makes possible to
   conceive new consumer information platforms . the rationale is to empower
   consumers by letting them get more relevant food information than they
   usually obtain through on product labeling , mass media or other traditional
   channels . in this paper , we envisage a new generation of food information
   provision services , called intelligent food services ( ifss ) , which would
   be responsive to consumer s expectations and information needs . we outline
   ifs structure and main features as well as constitutive elements of user ifs
   interaction context . particularly , we focus on food in context awareness
   capability and we discuss its influence on consumer and ifs behaviors
DE food information provision; food-in-context awareness; intelligent food
   services; internet of food
ID decision making; virtual corporation; consumer information; food sensors;
   food services; in contexts; information provision; interaction context;
   mobile app; product labeling; consumer behavior

---

UT 438
AR Wolfert S, 2017, AGRIC SYST, V153, P69, DOI 10.1016/j.agsy.2017.01.023
TI Big Data in Smart Farming – A review
AU Wolfert S; Ge L; Verdouw C; Bogaardt M-J
TC 2670
SO AGRIC SYST
PY 2017
AB smart farming is a development that emphasizes the use of information and
   communication technology in the cyber physical farm management cycle . new
   technologies such as the internet of things and cloud computing are expected
   to leverage this development and introduce more robots and artificial
   intelligence in farming . this is encompassed by the phenomenon of big data
   , massive volumes of data with a wide variety that can be captured ,
   analyzed and used for decision making . this review aims to gain insight
   into the state of the art of big data applications in smart farming and
   identify the related socio economic challenges to be addressed . following a
   structured approach , a conceptual framework for analysis was developed that
   can also be used for future studies on this topic . the review shows that
   the scope of big data applications in smart farming goes beyond primary
   production . it is influencing the entire food supply chain . big data are
   being used to provide predictive insights in farming operations , drive real
   time operational decisions , and redesign business processes for game
   changing business models . several authors therefore suggest that big data
   will cause major shifts in roles and power relations among different players
   in current food supply chain networks . the landscape of stakeholders
   exhibits an interesting game between powerful tech companies , venture
   capitalists and often small start ups and new entrants . at the same time
   there are several public institutions that publish open data , under the
   condition that the privacy of persons must be guaranteed . the future of
   smart farming may unravel in a continuum of two extreme scenarios : 1 )
   closed , proprietary systems in which the farmer is part of a highly
   integrated food supply chain or 2 ) open , collaborative systems in which
   the farmer and every other stakeholder in the chain network is flexible in
   choosing business partners as well for the technology as for the food
   production side . the further development of data and application
   infrastructures ( platforms and standards ) and their institutional
   embedment will play a crucial role in the battle between these scenarios .
   from a socio economic perspective , the authors propose to give research
   priority to organizational issues concerning governance issues and suitable
   business models for data sharing in different supply chain scenarios
DE agriculture; business modeling; data; data infrastructure; governance;
   information and communication technology
ID agricultural land; agricultural modeling; artificial intelligence;
   conceptual framework; data acquisition; dataset; decision making; food
   production; food supply; governance approach; literature review; power
   relations; stakeholder; supply chain management

---

UT 439
AR Steele R, 2013, PROG IND ECOL, V8, P30, DOI 10.1504/PIE.2013.055064
TI An overview of the role of informatics-based systems in furthering an
   integrated paddock to plate food supply system
AU Steele R
TC 2
SO PROG IND ECOL
PY 2013
AB food , nutrition and dietary related information are increasingly available
   in a digital form within the food production and consumption supply chain ,
   including : identifier and inventory systems . digitized nutrient component
   databases . databases of consumer packaged foods indexed by universal
   product codes ( upcs ) . greater use of digital point of sale systems . and
   the rapid emergence of health and diet related mobile apps . while these
   developments have emerged somewhat independently , they allow further
   integration and processing capabilities , with significant potential impact
   upon the efficiency and sophistication of the food supply chain , individual
   and society wide health , statistics gathering and further environmental ,
   materials and energy optimization within the food supply chain we refer to
   the enabling research field as nutrition informatics . in this article , we
   discuss the technological underpinnings , analyze the implications and
   applications of increasing digitization of food related information , and
   identify seven priority directions to advance informatics based systems for
   achieving an integrated paddock to plate food supply system
DE dietary intake; dietary-related information; food information; food supply
   chains; industrial ecology; information digitization; mhealth; mobile
   health; nutrition informatics; nutrition information; scm; supply chain
   management
ID emergence; food supply; health services; industrial ecology; informatics;
   information system; nutrition; research

---

UT 440
AR Herrera NR, 2018, PERVASIVEHEALTH PERVASIVE COMPUT TECHNOL HEAL, DOI
   10.1145/3240925.3240948
TI Foodsampler: Engaging people to contextualise food behaviour mixed methods
   for monitoring choices and triggers of eating habits
AU Herrera NR; Davis-Owusu K; van Oers S; de van der Schueren M; Alberts J;
   Vastenburg M
TC 1
SO PERVASIVEHEALTH PERVASIVE COMPUT TECHNOL HEAL
PY 2018
AB overweight and obesity affect the entire population . on a day to day basis
   , this problem relates to what people eat , why people eat what they eat and
   their day to day food choices . toward e health solutions that support self
   management of ( health ) food related practices , a better understanding of
   eating habits is needed . validated food measurement instruments are
   challenged to generate such holistic knowledge . primarily due to their
   limited scope ( mostly descriptive ) and their long and time consuming
   demands . the foodsampler research project aims to explore food informatics
   strategies to engage people in generating contextual knowledge of their food
   behavior . it targets an increasing vulnerable group in prevention of
   overweight and obesity : older adults with a low socio economical status (
   ses ) . the approach combines mixed method research ( mmr ) , research
   through design ( rtd ) and living labs research . in this way a user centric
   innovative process is implemented , involving end users and experts in
   cycles of exploring , prototyping and testing mixed food informatics
   strategies . by means of contextual research in the wild , co design
   sessions , and in situ interventions the project seeks for direct benefits
   to involve the targeted group as collaborators of the design process . in
   foodsampler end users and experts will co generate knowledge on best
   practices for mixed food informatics and the values of the generated
   knowledge to explain food behavior
DE health informatics; in-situ self-reporting; living labs; mixed-methods
   research; research through design; self-management; user-centric innovation
ID medical informatics; nutrition; eating habits; end-users; health
   informatics; in-situ self-reporting; living lab; mixed-methods research;
   research through design; self-management; self-reporting; user-centric
   innovations; design

---

UT 441
AR Nagahama K, 2011, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V59, P8575, DOI 10.1021/jf201836g
TI Efficient approach for simultaneous estimation of multiple health-promoting
   effects of foods
AU Nagahama K; Eto N; Yamamori K; Nishiyama K; Sakakibara Y; Iwata T; Uchida A;
   Yoshihara I; Suiko M
TC 7
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2011
AB the investigation of new food constituents for purposes of disease
   prevention or health promotion is an area of increasing interest in food
   science . this paper proposes a new system that allows for simultaneous
   estimation of the multiple health promoting effects of food constituents
   using informatics . the model utilizes expression data of intracellular
   marker proteins as descriptors that reply to stimulation of a constituent .
   to estimate three health promoting effects , namely , cancer cell growth
   suppression activity , antiviral activity , and antioxidant stress activity
   , each model was constructed using expression data of marker proteins as
   input data and health promoting effects as the output value . when
   prediction performances of three types of mathematical models constructed by
   simple , multiple regressions , or artificial neural network ( ann ) , were
   compared , the most adequate model was the one constructed using an ann .
   there were no statistically significant differences between the actual data
   and estimated values calculated by the ann models . this system was able to
   simultaneously estimate health promoting effects with reasonable precision
   from the same expression data of marker proteins . this novel system should
   prove to be an interesting platform for evaluation of the health promoting
   effects of food . 2011 american chemical society .
DE artificial neural network; food constituents; health-promoting effects;
   linear regression; marker protein
ID anticarcinogenic agents; antioxidants; antiviral agents; biological markers;
   cell line tumor; dietary proteins; food; food analysis; health promotion;
   humans; models theoretical; neural networks ( computer ); plant proteins;
   regression analysis; estimation; growth kinetics; mathematical models;
   neural networks; proteins; antineoplastic agent; antioxidant; antivirus
   agent; biological marker; vegetable protein; adequate models; antiviral
   activities; artificial neural network; cancer cell growth; descriptors;
   disease prevention; expression data; food constituents; food science; health
   promotion; health-promoting effects; informatics; input datas; marker
   proteins; multiple regressions; output values; prediction performance;
   simultaneous estimation; statistically significant difference; article;
   artificial neural network; food; food analysis; health promotion; human;
   methodology; protein intake; regression analysis; theoretical model; tumor
   cell line; health

---

UT 442
AR Radu AI, 2016, TALANTA, V160, P289, DOI 10.1016/j.talanta.2016.07.027
TI Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) in food analytics: Detection of
   vitamins B2 and B12 in cereals
AU Radu AI; Kuellmer M; Giese B; Huebner U; Weber K; Cialla-May D; Popp J
TC 79
SO TALANTA
PY 2016
AB food analysis has been gaining interest throughout recent decades for
   different reasons : the detection of hazardous substances in food and
   routine investigations of food composition and vitamin / nutrient contents .
   regardless of the targeted component , food analysis raises a few challenges
   regarding the complexity of the matrix and detecting trace amounts of
   substances . we report herein the results obtained regarding the
   simultaneous detection of two b vitamins ( riboflavin , vitamin b2 and
   cyanocobalamin , vitamin b12 ) by means of sers . sers provides molecular
   fingerprint identification and high analytical sensitivity together with a
   low processing time and cost . all these make sers a promising tool for the
   development of food analytical methods
DE cereals; cyanocobalamin; raman spectroscopy; riboflavin; surface enhanced
   raman spectroscopy
ID chromatography high pressure liquid; edible grain; food analysis;
   riboflavin; spectrum analysis raman; vitamin b 12; vitamins; light
   transmission; spectrum analysis; vitamins; cyanocobalamin; riboflavin;
   vitamin; analytical method; cereals; cyanocobalamin; hazardous substances;
   molecular fingerprint; riboflavin; simultaneous detection; surface enhanced
   raman spectroscopy; chemistry; food analysis; food grain; high performance
   liquid chromatography; procedures; raman spectrometry; raman spectroscopy

---

UT 443
AR Richardson LC, 2017, FOODBORNE PATHOG DIS, V14, P701, DOI
   10.1089/fpd.2017.2324
TI An Updated Scheme for Categorizing Foods Implicated in Foodborne Disease
   Outbreaks: A Tri-Agency Collaboration
AU Richardson LC; Bazaco MC; Parker CC; Dewey-Mattia D; Golden N; Jones K;
   Klontz K; Travis C; Kufel JZ; Cole D
TC 60
SO FOODBORNE PATHOG DIS
PY 2017
AB background : foodborne disease data collected during outbreak investigations
   are used to estimate the percentage of foodborne illnesses attributable to
   specific food categories . current food categories do not reflect whether or
   how the food has been processed and exclude many multiple ingredient foods .
   materials and methods : representatives from three federal agencies worked
   collaboratively in the interagency food safety analytics collaboration (
   ifsac ) to develop a hierarchical scheme for categorizing foods implicated
   in outbreaks , which accounts for the type of processing and provides more
   specific food categories for regulatory purposes . ifsac also developed
   standard assumptions for assigning foods to specific food categories ,
   including some multiple ingredient foods . the number and percentage of
   outbreaks assignable to each level of the hierarchy were summarized .
   results : the ifsac scheme is a five level hierarchy for categorizing
   implicated foods with increasingly specific subcategories at each level ,
   resulting in a total of 234 food categories . subcategories allow
   distinguishing features of implicated foods to be reported , such as
   pasteurized versus unpasteurized fluid milk , she will eggs versus liquid
   egg products , ready to eat versus raw meats , and five different varieties
   of fruit categories . twenty four aggregate food categories contained a
   sufficient number of outbreaks for source attribution analyzes . among 9791
   outbreaks reported from 1998 to 2014 with an identified food vehicle , 4607
   ( 47 % ) were assignable to food categories using this scheme . among these
   , 4218 ( 92 % ) were assigned to one of the 24 aggregate food categories ,
   and 840 ( 18 % ) were assigned to the most specific category possible .
   conclusions : updates to the food categorization scheme and new methods for
   assigning implicated foods to specific food categories can help increase the
   number of outbreaks attributed to a single food category . the increased
   specificity of food categories in this scheme may help improve source
   attribution analyzes , eventually leading to improved foodborne illness
   source attribution estimates and enhanced food safety and regulatory efforts
DE food categorization; foodborne; ifsac; outbreak
ID dairy products; disease outbreaks; eggs; food; food contamination; food
   handling; food microbiology; food safety; foodborne diseases; fruit; humans;
   meat; pasteurization; article; classification; egg; epidemic; food
   categorization; food industry; food poisoning; food processing; food safety;
   fruit; milk; priority journal; raw meat; dairy product; epidemic; food; food
   contamination; food control; food handling; food poisoning; food safety;
   human; meat; microbiology; pasteurization

---

UT 444
AR Shivaprabhu VR, 2017, PROC ACM SIGSPATIAL WORK SMART CITIES URBAN ANAL
   URBANGIS, V2017-January, DOI 10.1145/3152178.3152186
TI Ontology-based instance matching for geospatial urban data integration
AU Shivaprabhu VR; Balasubramani BS; Cruz IF
TC 5
SO PROC ACM SIGSPATIAL WORK SMART CITIES URBAN ANAL URBANGIS
PY 2017
AB to run a smart city , data is collected from disparate sources such as iot
   devices , social media , private and public organizations , and government
   agencies . in the us , the city of chicago has been a pioneer in the
   collection of data and in the development of a framework , called opengrid ,
   to curate and analyze the collected data . opengrid is a geospatial
   situational awareness platform that allows policy makers , service providers
   , and the general public to explore city data and to perform advanced data
   analytics to enable planning of services , prediction of events and patterns
   , and identification of incidents across the city . this paper presents the
   instance matching module of giva , a geospatial data integration ,
   visualization , and analytics platform , as applied to the integration of
   information related to businesses , which is spread across several datasets
   . in particular , we describe the integration of two datasets , business
   licenses and food inspections , so as to enable predictive analytics to
   determine which food establishments the city should inspect first . the
   paper describes semantic web based instance matching mechanisms to compare
   the business names and address fields
DE data integration; geospatial data; instance matching; ontology; record
   linkage
ID data visualization; ontology; predictive analytics; smart city; geospatial
   data; geospatial data integration; government agencies; instance matching;
   public organizations; record linkage; service provider; situational
   awareness; data integration

---

UT 445
AR Tao Q, 2020, J FOOD SCI BIOTECHNOL, V39, P1, DOI
   10.3969/j.issn.1673-1689.2020.12.001
TI A Review of Big Data Application in Food Industry; [食品大数据应用综述]
AU Tao Q; Li W; Ding H/2; Cui X/1
TC 2
SO J FOOD SCI BIOTECHNOL
PY 2020
AB big data technology refers to the ability to quickly obtain valuable
   information from various types of data . big data technology is developing
   to make food science serve people better , which provides a new success
   insight and a scientific analysis strategy for food science , which can
   improve the performance of food science in food tracing , food matching ,
   recipe recommendation , food safety , food producing management , food
   preference , and predictability and accuracy of food analysis in future .
   however , there are some challenges in big data application , such as data
   loss and difficulty to distinguish authenticity . this review introduced the
   application of big data in food industry , analyzed the challenges and the
   feasible solutions , and prospect tendency of food big data . food
   scientists in the research area of food big data are encouraged to do
   further study based on our survey , contributing to food science from the
   perspective of big data and realizing the improvement of food science
   according to the future development trend of food . 2020 editorial office of
   journal of food science and biotechnology
DE food big data; food matching; food producing management; food safety; food
   tracing

---

UT 446
AR Top JL, 2010, EFF FOOD CHAIN MODEL APPL, P209, DOI 10.3921/978-90-8686-705-9
TI Food informatics
AU Top JL; Koenderink NJJP; Rijgersberg H
TC 0
SO EFF FOOD CHAIN MODEL APPL
PY 2010
AB purpose : innovation in agrifood supply chains requires transparency of
   information and knowledge . the objective of food informatics is to create
   web based methods and tools to support continuous interaction between
   science , industry and society . methodology / approach : a central theme is
   to apply technologies that express the semantics of research information .
   due to the development of knowledge models ( ontologies ) , computer systems
   become aware of food domain knowledge . the most important step in the
   context is to introduce a formal version of the most elementary natural
   language sentence ( subjectpredicate object ) and to refer to its parts
   using world wide unique identifiers . this has been supplemented with
   logical constructs to allow complex reasoning . findings : we have developed
   the roc method : rapid and reuse based ontology construction . this method
   makes knowledge modeling more efficient . roc allows the domain expert to
   autonomously identify terms and concepts . the expert is supported in
   associative thinking . secondly , we have developed a vocabulary to describe
   the core concepts and processes in quantitative ( agrifood ) research . we
   have implemented and evaluated this vocabulary in new tools to assist
   researchers . practical implications : if more people understand the
   assumptions and mechanisms on which scientific results in agrifood are based
   , they have a better understanding of which actions to take . for food
   industry this means increased quality , sustainability and cost
   effectiveness in the industrial production process . the research management
   system tiffany has been developed and implemented at ti food and nutrition .
   secondly , erds , the emerging risks detection system scans signals on the
   web that point to events that eventually may cause food safety risks . a
   third application is gateway2food . this tool discloses knowledge in the
   field of food technology to small and medium size companies by allowing them
   to interactively search for experts . wageningen academic publishers . the
   netherlands , 2010 .
DE e-science; emerging risks; knowledge management; open innovation; semantic
   web

---

UT 447
AR Belaud J-P, 2019, COMPUT IND, V111, P41, DOI 10.1016/j.compind.2019.06.006
TI Big data for agri-food 4.0: Application to sustainability management for by-
   products supply chain
AU Belaud J-P; Prioux N; Vialle C; Sablayrolles C
TC 252
SO COMPUT IND
PY 2019
AB the bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass is a promising method for the
   production of bio energy , biomolecules and biomaterials . pretreatment of
   the lignocellulosic biomass is an essential step in this process . the
   choice of pretreatment process is a difficult one , and there are currently
   no clear criteria on which to base this choice . this project , with its
   sustainability and agri food perspective , used environmental impacts to
   assess the various processes and their panels of technologies . the approach
   developed integrates big data , to improve sustainability management in
   supply chain design , with the aim of valorising agricultural waste . in
   five main steps , this approach combines concepts from industry 4.0 ,
   sustainability and the agri food industry . we apply this approach to a case
   study in the domain of agricultural waste valorisation : the pretreatment of
   lignocellulosic biomass in the rice supply chain
DE agriculture supply chain; biorefinery; circular economy; industry 40; life
   cycle assessment; sustainability
ID agricultural wastes; agriculture; big data; biomass; environmental
   technology; industry 40; life cycle; supply chains; sustainable development;
   waste management; agri-food industry; biorefineries; circular economy; life
   cycle assessment ( lca ); lignocellulosic biomass; pretreatment process;
   supply chain design; sustainability managements; supply chain management

---

UT 448
AR Liu Y/3, 2018, LECT NOTES BUS PROCESS, V310, P132, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-94845-4_12
TI Pattern discovery from big data of food sampling inspections based on
   extreme learning machine
AU Liu Y/3; Li X/14; Wang J/8; Chen F; Wang J; Shi Y; Zheng L
TC 5
SO LECT NOTES BUS PROCESS
PY 2018
AB food sampling programs are implemented from time to time in local areas or
   throughout the country in order to guarantee food safety and to improve food
   quality . the hidden patterns in the accumulated huge amount of data and
   their potential values are worthy to research . in this paper , extreme
   learning machine ( elm ) is employed on real data sets collected from the
   food safety inspections of china in recent two years , in order to mine the
   relationship between food quality and food category , manufacturing site and
   season , inspection site and season , and many other attributes .
   experimental results indicate that the elm approach has better prediction
   precision and generalization ability than logistic regression that was
   adopted in preceding work . the patterns obtained are helpful for making
   more effective food sampling plans and for more targeted food safety tracing
DE big data; extreme learning machine; food sampling inspection; logistic
   regression
ID big data; data mining; information systems; information use; inspection;
   knowledge acquisition; learning systems; regression analysis; extreme
   learning machine; food safety inspection; generalization ability; logistic
   regressions; manufacturing sites; pattern discovery; potential values;
   prediction precision; food safety

---

UT 449
AR Jilani MT, 2019, MICROELECTRON J, V88, P117, DOI 10.1016/j.mejo.2018.03.006
TI An implementation of IoT-based microwave sensing system for the evaluation
   of tissues moisture
AU Jilani MT; Rehman MZU; Khan AM; Chughtai O; Abbas MA; Khan MT
TC 28
SO MICROELECTRON J
PY 2019
AB internet of things ( iot ) is no longer just a buzzword . ' things ' that
   are immensely connecting to the internet , are now creating ' smart '
   systems . however , heterogeneous devices and the dominance of propriety
   protocols are still the major challenges for practical application of such
   systems . this research work presents a practical application of a real time
   microwave sensing system for the evaluation of tissues moisture . the work
   addresses two major challenges . first , the use of a highly sensitive
   microwave sensor to determine tissue moisture . second , to share the
   measurement with the remote users through an iot based system over the
   bluetooth low energy radio using open standards and protocols . the
   prototype shows significant changes in its resonance frequency , return loss
   and bandwidth ( 5.5 % 26 % ) for the measured moisture content , which is
   also validated . this implementation demonstrates the feasibility of real
   time monitoring of food quality . it also enables data analytics that may
   help the industries to improve product quality , supply chain and predicts
   demand in a more effective manner
DE bluetooth low energy; dielectric spectroscopy; internet of things; meat
   quality monitoring; microwave sensor; tissue moisture content; water holding
   capacity
ID bluetooth; dielectric spectroscopy; histology; microwave sensors;
   microwaves; moisture control; moisture determination; supply chains; tissue;
   bluetooth low energies ( btle ); heterogeneous devices; internet of things (
   iot ); meat quality; microwave sensing; real time monitoring; resonance
   frequencies; water holding capacity; internet of things

---

UT 450
AR Amato A, 2019, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V927, P880, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-15035-8_86
TI Big Data Analytics for Traceability in Food Supply Chain
AU Amato A; Cozzolino G; Moscato V
TC 9
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2019
AB the amount of socio economic data generated every day has grown dramatically
   in recent years thanks to the widespread use of the internet connection and
   the increase in the availability of electronic devices . this leads to the
   production of a huge amount of digital traces of various kinds : photos ,
   emails , call logs , information on purchases made , financial transactions
   , social interactions network . big data are data characterized by volume ,
   speed and variety : they are extracted and processed at high speed and
   collected in large datasets , which are made up of data from the most varied
   sources and therefore not only from structured data . data collection is
   typically difficult and expensive , both in terms of time and money .
   instead , the enthusiasm that surrounds big data is due precisely to the
   perception of great ease and speed of access to a large amount of data at
   low cost . thence , in this work we show the application of a system
   architecture aiming to use of big data technologies for traceability in food
   supply chain domain
ID costs; data analytics; data mining; food supply; large dataset; supply
   chains; data collection; data technologies; electronic device; financial
   transactions; internet connection; social interactions; socioeconomic data;
   system architectures; data acquisition

---

UT 451
AR Jahn M, 2015, ANAL CHIM ACTA, V860, P43, DOI 10.1016/j.aca.2015.01.005
TI Towards SERS based applications in food analytics: Lipophilic sensor layers
   for the detection of Sudan III in food matrices
AU Jahn M; Patze S; Bocklitz T; Weber K; Cialla-May D; Popp J
TC 63
SO ANAL CHIM ACTA
PY 2015
AB food safety is a topic of great importance for our society which places high
   demands on analytical methods . surface enhanced raman spectroscopy ( sers )
   meets the requirements for a rapid , sensitive and specific detection
   technique . the fact that metallic colloids , one of the most often used
   sers substrates , are usually prepared in aqueous solution makes the
   detection of water insoluble substances challenging . in this paper we
   present a sers based approach for the detection of water insoluble molecules
   by applying a hydrophobic surface modification onto the surface of enzymatic
   generated silver nanoparticles . by this approach the detection of the
   illegal water insoluble food dyes , such as sudan iii in presence of
   riboflavin , as water soluble competitor , is possible . moreover , we
   demonstrate the usability of this kind of sers substrates for determination
   of sudan iii out of spiked paprika extracts
DE food safety; sensor layers; sudan dye detection; surface enhanced raman
   spectroscopy
ID azo compounds; food analysis; hydrophobic and hydrophilic interactions;
   lipids; molecular structure; nanoparticles; particle size; riboflavin;
   silver; spectrum analysis raman; surface properties; food safety;
   hydrophobicity; light transmission; raman spectroscopy; silver
   nanoparticles; sols; surface chemistry; aliphatic hydrocarbon; methanol; oil
   scarlet; riboflavin; silver nanoparticle; azo compound; lipid; nanoparticle;
   oil scarlet; riboflavin; silver; analytical method; hydrophobic surfaces;
   insoluble substances; metallic colloids; sensor layers; specific detection;
   sudan dyes; surface enhanced raman spectroscopy; article; concentration (
   parameters ); food analysis; food contamination; hydrophobicity;
   immobilization; limit of detection; lipophilic sensor layer; lipophilicity;
   pepper; physical parameters; raman spectrometry; sensitivity and
   specificity; solubility; surface property; chemical phenomena; chemical
   structure; chemistry; food analysis; particle size; procedures; raman
   spectrometry; substrates

---

UT 452
AR Johnson MO, 2010, INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL, V7, P1970, DOI
   10.3390/ijerph7051970
TI The case for visual analytics of arsenic concentrations in foods
AU Johnson MO; Cohly HHP; Isokpehi RD; Awofolu OR
TC 20
SO INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2010
AB arsenic is a naturally occurring toxic metal and its presence in food could
   be a potential risk to the health of both humans and animals . prolonged
   ingestion of arsenic contaminated water may result in manifestations of
   toxicity in all systems of the body . visual analytics is a
   multidisciplinary field that is defined as the science of analytical
   reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces . the concentrations
   of arsenic vary in foods making it impractical and impossible to provide
   regulatory limit for each food . this review article presents a case for the
   use of visual analytics approaches to provide comparative assessment of
   arsenic in various foods . the topics covered include ( i ) metabolism of
   arsenic in the human body . ( ii ) arsenic concentrations in various foods .
   ( ii ) factors affecting arsenic uptake in plants . ( ii ) introduction to
   visual analytics . and ( iv ) benefits of visual analytics for comparative
   assessment of arsenic concentration in foods . visual analytics can provide
   an information superstructure of arsenic in various foods to permit
   insightful comparative risk assessment of the diverse and continually
   expanding data on arsenic in food groups in the context of country of study
   or origin , year of study , method of analysis and arsenic species
DE arsenic; foods; risk assessment; toxicity; visual analytics
ID arsenic; environmental pollutants; food contamination; humans; plants;
   animalia; arsenic; arsenic; pollutant; comparative study; concentration (
   parameters ); food analysis; food contamination; human; ingestion; metal
   metabolism; nonhuman; nutritional assessment; plant intoxication; review;
   risk assessment; small intestine absorption; toxicokinetics; analysis; food
   contamination; metabolism; pharmacokinetics; plant; pollutant

---

UT 453
AR Medina-Franco JL/1, 2018, F1000 RES, V7, DOI 10.12688/f1000research.15440.1
TI Analysis of a large food chemical database: Chemical space, diversity, and
   complexity
AU Medina-Franco JL/1; Naveja JJ; Rico-Hidalgo MP
TC 56
SO F1000 RES
PY 2018
AB background : food chemicals are a cornerstone in the food industry . however
   , its chemical diversity has been explored on a limited basis , for instance
   , previous analysis of food related databases were done up to 2,200
   molecules . the goal of this work was to quantify the chemical diversity of
   chemical compounds stored in foodb , a database with nearly 24,000 food
   chemicals . methods : the visual representation of the chemical space of
   foodb was done with chemmaps , a novel approach based on the concept of
   chemical satellites . the large food chemical database was profiled based on
   physicochemical properties , molecular complexity and scaffold content . the
   global diversity of fooddb was characterized using consensus diversity plots
   . results : it was found that compounds in foodb are very diverse in terms
   of properties and structure , with a large structural complexity . it was
   also found that one third of the food chemicals are acyclic molecules and
   ring containing molecules are mostly monocyclic , with several scaffolds
   common to natural products in other databases . conclusions : to the best of
   our knowledge , this is the first analysis of the chemical diversity and
   complexity of foodb . this study represents a step further to the emerging
   field of food informatics . future study should compare directly the
   chemical structures of the molecules in foodb with other compound databases
   , for instance , drug like databases and natural products collections . 2018
   naveja jj et al .
DE chemical space; chemmaps; chemoinformatics; consensus diversity plots;
   diversity; foodb; food informatics; in silico
ID chemical phenomena; databases pharmaceutical; food; natural product;
   polyphenol; article; chemical analysis; chemical composition; chemical
   database; food analysis; food chemical database; food composition; physical
   chemistry; chemical phenomena; drug database; food

---

UT 454
AR Liu G/2, 2018, E3S WEB CONF, V53, DOI 10.1051/e3sconf/20185303084
TI Improving Food safety in Supply Chain based on Big Data
AU Liu G/2; Li G/1; Yang R; Guo L
TC 13
SO E3S WEB CONF
PY 2018
AB with the rapid development of big data collection and analysis , these tools
   are increasingly applied to food safety and quality . big data can play an
   important role in improving food safety management . this paper will deeply
   analyze the food safety risk warning system based on big data management .
   the research results show that the food safety management system based on
   big data includes data source , data collection and storage , data analysis
   and application of analysis results
ID data acquisition; digital storage; food safety; food storage; information
   management; quality control; safety engineering; supply chains; data
   collection; data-source; food safety management; food safety management
   systems; research results; big data

---

UT 455
AR Ji G, 2017, J SYST SCI SYST ENG, V26, P183, DOI 10.1007/s11518-016-5320-6
TI A study on decision-making of food supply chain based on big data
AU Ji G; Hu L/2; Tan KH
TC 52
SO J SYST SCI SYST ENG
PY 2017
AB as more and more companies have captured and analyzed huge volumes of data
   to improve the performance of supply chain , this paper develops a big data
   harvest model that uses big data as inputs to make more informed production
   decisions in the food supply chain . by introducing a method of bayesian
   network , this paper integrates sample data and finds a because and effect
   between data to predict market demand . then the deduction graph model that
   translates products demand into processes and divides processes into tasks
   and assets is presented , and an example of how big data in the food supply
   chain can be combined with bayesian network and deduction graph model to
   guide production decision . our conclusions indicate that the analytical
   framework has vast potential for supporting support decision making by
   extracting value from big data . 2017 , systems engineering society of china
   and springer verlag berlin heidelberg .
DE bayesian network; big data; deduction graph model; food supply chain
ID bayesian networks; data mining; decision making; food supply; graph theory;
   supply chains; cause and effects; deduction graph; harvest model; market
   demand; production decisions; sample data; big data

---

UT 456
AR Lachenmeier DW, 2008, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V56, P5463, DOI 10.1021/jf800069p
TI Multivariate curve resolution of spectrophotometric data for the
   determination of artificial food colors
AU Lachenmeier DW; Kessler W
TC 25
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2008
AB in the analysis of food additives , past emphasis was put on the development
   of chromatographic techniques to separate target components from a complex
   matrix . especially in the case of artificial food colors , direct
   spectrophotometric measurement was seen to lack in specificity due to a high
   spectral overlap between different components . multivariate curve
   resolution ( mcr ) may be used to overcome this limitation . mcr is able to
   ( i ) extract from a complex spectral feature the number of involved
   components , ( ii ) attribute the resulting spectra to chemical compounds ,
   and ( iii ) quantify the individual spectral contributions with or without a
   priori knowledge . we have evaluated mcr for the routine analysis of yellow
   and blue food colors in absinthe spirits . using calibration standards , we
   were able to show that mcr equally performs as compared to partial least
   squares regression but with much improved chemical information contained in
   the predicted spectra . mcr was then applied to an authentic collective of
   different absinthes . as confirmed by reference analytics , the food colors
   were correctly assigned with a sensitivity of 0.93 and a specificity of
   0.85. besides the artificial colors , the algorithm detected a further
   component in some samples that could be assigned to natural coloring from
   chlorophyll . 2008 american chemical society .
DE absinthe; alcoholic beverages; food colors; mcr; multivariate curve
   resolution; pls; spectrophotometry
ID absinthe; algorithms; analysis of variance; food coloring agents; least
   squares analysis; sensitivity and specificity; spectrophotometry; food dye;
   absinthe; algorithm; analysis of variance; article; comparative study;
   regression analysis; sensitivity and specificity; spectrophotometry

---

UT 457
AR Violino S, 2019, FOODS, V8, DOI 10.3390/foods8110529
TI Are the innovative electronic labels for extra virgin olive oil sustainable,
   traceable, and accepted by consumers?
AU Violino S; Pallottino F; Sperandio G; Figorilli S; Antonucci F; Ioannoni V;
   Fappiano D; Costa C
TC 74
SO FOODS
PY 2019
AB traceability is the ability to follow the displacement of food through its
   entire chain . extra virgin olive oil ( evoo ) represents italian excellence
   , with consumers increased awareness for traceability . the aim of this work
   is to propose and analyze the economic sustainability and consumers
   preference of three technological systems supporting traceability : near
   field communication ( nfc ) based . tamper proof device plus radio frequency
   identification ( rfid ) and app . qr code tag plus ' scratch and win '
   system and blockchain . an anonymous questionnaire to italian consumers ( n
   = 1120 ) was made to acquire consumers acceptability of the systems and
   estimating their willingness to pay additional premium prices for these . an
   economic analysis estimated and compared the technology costs at different
   production levels . results show that 94 % of the consumer respondents are
   interested in the implementation of such technologies , and among them 45 %
   chose qr code protected by a ' scratch and win ' system with a blockchain
   infotracing platform ( qr b ) . the consumers interested are willing to pay
   a mean premium price of 17.8 % and economic analysis reported evidenced an
   incidence always lower than mid-/high production levels . the success of the
   qr b could be ascribed to different aspects : the cutting edge fashion trend
   of blockchain in the food sector , the use of incentives , the easy to use
   qr code , and the gamification strategy
DE blockchain; customer; evoo; food safety; internet of food ( iof ); smart tag

---

UT 458
AR O’Connor C, 2017, J KNOWL MANAG, V21, P156, DOI 10.1108/JKM-08-2016-0357
TI Facilitating knowledge management through filtered big data: SME
   competitiveness in an agri-food sector
AU O’Connor C; Kelly S
TC 115
SO J KNOWL MANAG
PY 2017
AB purpose : this paper aims to critique a facilitated knowledge management (
   km ) process that utilizes filtered big data and , specifically , the
   process effectiveness in overcoming barriers to small and medium sized
   enterprises ( smes ) use of big data , the processes enablement of sme
   engagement with and use of big data and the process effect on sme
   competitiveness within an agri food sector . design / methodology / approach
   : from 300 participant firms , sme owner managers representing seven
   longitudinal case studies were contacted by the facilitator at least once
   monthly over six months . findings : results indicate that explicit and
   tacit knowledge can be enhanced when smes have access to a facilitated
   program that analyzes , packages and explains big data consumer analytics
   captured by a large pillar firm in a food network . additionally , big data
   and knowledge are mutually exclusive unless effective km processes are
   implemented . several barriers to knowledge acquisition and application stem
   from sme resource limitations , strategic orientation and asymmetrical power
   relationships within a network . research limitations / implications : by
   using dunnhumby data , this study captured the impact of only one form of
   big data , consumer analytics . however , this is a significant data set for
   sme agri food businesses . additionally , although the smes were based in
   only one uk region , northern ireland , there is wide scope for future
   research across multiple uk regions with the same dunnhumby data set .
   originality / value : the study demonstrates the potential relevance of big
   data to smes activities and developments , explicitly identifying that
   realizing this potential requires the data to be filtered and presented as
   market relevant information that engages smes , recognizes relationship
   dynamics and supports learning through feedback and two way dialog . this is
   the first study that empirically analyzes filtered big data and sme
   competitiveness . the examination of relationship dynamics also overcomes
   existing literature limitations where smes constraints are seen as the prime
   factor restricting knowledge transfer
DE agri-food; big data; case-studies; knowledge management; smes

---

UT 459
AR Sapienza S, 2018, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V11032 LNCS, P221, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-98349-3_17
TI Emerging data governance issues in big data applications for food safety
AU Sapienza S; Palmirani M
TC 7
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2018
AB the food industry and food safety authorities show an increasing interest in
   big data applications . on the one hand , big data strengthens data storage
   , data mashup , and methodology of risk assessment . on the other hand , the
   presence of risks and challenges linked to big data demands for future proof
   solutions . while business practices and academic literature have already
   identified ways of exploiting the value of large collections of data ,
   emerging governance issues including data sovereignty , competition ,
   privacy and data donations , call for further analysis
DE big data; data governance; emerging issues; food safety; risk assessment
ID accident prevention; competition; digital storage; food safety; government
   data processing; information systems; information use; risk assessment;
   academic literature; big data applications; business practices; data
   donation; data governances; emerging issues; food industries; future-proof
   solutions; big data

---

UT 460
AR Pollard S, 2018, ENCYCL FOOD CHEM, P356, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-08-100596-5.21839-8
TI Big Data Applications in Food Safety and Quality
AU Pollard S; Namazi H; Khaksar R
TC 18
SO ENCYCL FOOD CHEM
PY 2018
AB big data and data analytics has evolved to become an indispensable facet
   across all industries , enabling new advances in management strategies ,
   product development , and data insight that has never before been possible .
   traditionally , scientists have approached scientific questions by
   formulating a hypothetical model and carefully designing experiments to
   accept or reject the proposed model . the more modern statistical method ,
   fueled by the big data revolution , is to refrain from relying on
   hypothetical models and allow the data itself to identify pertinent
   variables and patterns that shape the observed outcome . this evolution of
   big data can be applied to food safety and food quality in ways that will
   reshape the way consumers and producers think about and make decisions
   regarding food purchases and production practices . with the rise of
   consumer demand for food transparency , consumers are more concerned than
   ever with where their food comes from and expect companies to provide clear
   , accurate and useful food related information for the products they
   purchase . big data can enable greater transparency throughout the farm to
   fork continuum by driving more informed safety and quality decisions , such
   as shelf life prediction , improved sanitation and supply chain decisions ,
   and predictive risk assessment among many other applications
DE big data; blockchain; food quality; food safety; machine learning;
   microbiome; predictive microbiology
ID advanced analytics; data quality; food microbiology; food safety;
   information management; learning systems; product development; purchasing;
   sales; transparency; big data applications; blockchain; data analytics; food
   quality; food safety; hypothetical models; machine learning; management
   strategies; microbiome; predictive microbiology; big data

---

UT 461
AR Xu Z/1, 2024, JMIR FORM RES, V8, DOI 10.2196/52170
TI Developing a Personalized Meal Recommendation System for Chinese Older
   Adults: Observational Cohort Study
AU Xu Z/1; Gu Y/1; Xu X/4; Topaz M; Guo Z; Kang H/1; Sun L/1; Li J/7
TC 7
SO JMIR FORM RES
PY 2024
AB background : china s older population is facing serious health challenges ,
   including malnutrition and multiple chronic conditions . there is a critical
   need for tailored food recommendation systems . knowledge graph based food
   recommendations offer considerable promise in delivering personalized
   nutritional support . however , the integration of disease based nutritional
   principles and preference related requirements needs to be optimized in
   current recommendation processes . objective : this study aims to develop a
   knowledge graph based personalized meal recommendation system for community
   dwelling older adults and to conduct preliminary effectiveness testing .
   methods : we developed elcombo , a personalized meal recommendation system
   driven by user profiles and food knowledge graphs . user profiles were
   established from a survey of 96 community dwelling older adults . food
   knowledge graphs were supported by data from websites of chinese cuisine
   recipes and eating history , consisting of 5 entity classes : dishes ,
   ingredients , category of ingredients , nutrients , and diseases , along
   with their attributes and interrelations . a personalized meal
   recommendation algorithm was then developed to synthesize this information
   to generate packaged meals as outputs , considering disease related
   nutritional constraints and personal dietary preferences . furthermore , a
   validation study using a real world data set collected from 96 community
   dwelling older adults was conducted to assess elcombo s effectiveness in
   modifying their dietary habits over a 1-month intervention , using simulated
   data for impact analysis . results : our recommendation system , elcombo ,
   was evaluated by comparing the dietary diversity and diet quality of its
   recommended meals with those of the autonomous choices of 96 eligible
   community dwelling older adults . participants were grouped based on whether
   they had a recorded eating history , with 34 ( 35 % ) having and 62 ( 65 % )
   lacking such data . simulation experiments based on retrospective data over
   a 30-day evaluation revealed that elcombo s meal recommendations
   consistently had significantly higher diet quality and dietary diversity
   compared to the older adults own selections ( p < .001 ) . in addition ,
   case studies of 2 older adults , 1 with and 1 without prior eating records ,
   showcased elcombo s ability to fulfill complex nutritional requirements
   associated with multiple morbidities , personalized to each individual s
   health profile and dietary requirements . conclusions : elcombo has shown
   enhanced potential for improving dietary quality and diversity among
   community dwelling older adults in simulation tests . the evaluation metrics
   suggest that the food choices supported by the personalized meal
   recommendation system surpass autonomous selections . future research will
   focus on validating and refining elcombo s performance in real world
   settings , emphasizing the robust management of complex health data . the
   system s scalability and adaptability pinpoint its potential for making a
   meaningful impact on the nutritional health of older adults . 2024 jmir
   publications inc .
DE community; geriatric nutrition; knowledge graph; personalized food
   recommendation; ubiquitous computing

---

UT 462
AR Jabeen H, 2024, ROLES CHALL SEMANTIC INTELL HEAL COGN COMPUT, P51, DOI
   10.3233/SSW230025
TI Semantics for culinary health care
AU Jabeen H
TC 2
SO ROLES CHALL SEMANTIC INTELL HEAL COGN COMPUT
PY 2024
AB in this chapter , we demonstrate the potential of semantic web and knowledge
   graphs in the context of culinary healthcare . we explore the idea of
   annotating text based recipes with cooking semantics , rendering the
   underlying concepts machine readable through the application of ai and nlp
   techniques . this annotated data can be harnessed to generate innovative ,
   nutritionally sound recipes , with optimization criteria customized to
   prioritize health related considerations . the concept of semantic recipe
   generation offers promising applications , such as catering to individuals
   with specific dietary requirements and promoting ecofriendly cooking
   practices . we envision the possibility of extending this approach to
   develop a robust system that contributes to improving the well being . 2024
   akademische verlagsgesellschaft aka gmbh , berlin
DE automated recipe creation; health; recipe knowledge graph; semantic culinary
   health; semantic recipe

---

UT 463
AR Mereddy D, 2024, PROC - IEEE/WIC INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL
   WI-IAT, P796, DOI 10.1109/WI-IAT62293.2024.00130
TI Enabling Next-Generation Smart Homes Through Bert Personalized Food
   Recommendations - RecipeBERT
AU Mereddy D; Beedareddy JSR
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE/WIC INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL WI-IAT
PY 2024
AB this paper introduces recipebert , a bert based nlp model for personalized
   meal recommendations in the context of smart homes research . as a content
   based recommendation system , it ranks recipes based on semantic similarity
   of ingredients and procedures . recipes have similar ingredients and
   procedures are considered similar recipes . the proposed model effectively
   curates a personalized list of top recipes , taking into account the
   household s eating patterns over an extended period . unlike previous bert
   based models , which lacked comprehensive fine tuning to adopt to food
   recommendation domain , our approach enhances efficiency through fine tuning
   bert to better deliver tailored recommendations . our evaluation included
   testing different transformer models : sentence bert and it is distilled
   version along with sentence distilled roberta , which we optimized through
   both full and various partial fine tuning methods . this comparative
   analysis helped us determine the most suitable model and fine tuning process
   for accurately adapting bert model to this task . here we hypothesize that
   carefully fine tuned llm s can demonstrate improved performance in the
   recipe recommendation domain compared to pretrained models . in this work ,
   we utilized a semi automated labeling method combining distillation and
   manual data review process for fine tuning data needs . the complete code
   and dataset for our project are available at 2024 ieee .
DE bert; personalized food recommendations; recipebert; sbert
ID bert; content-based recommendation; fine tuning; fine tuning methods;
   personalized food recommendation; recipebert; sbert; semantic similarity;
   smart homes; transformer modeling; recommender systems

---

UT 464
AR Bederiana S, 2024, EURASIA PROC SCI TECHNOL ENG MATH, V28, P438, DOI
   10.55549/epstem.1523634
TI Food Recommendation System for a Healthy Liver Using Machine Learning
AU Bederiana S; Argesta S; Dhurata V; Blerina P
TC 1
SO EURASIA PROC SCI TECHNOL ENG MATH
PY 2024
AB nowadays , the work routine , the problems we face , make us not pay proper
   attention to healthy eating . as a result , people get sick . we have
   created through mathematical knowledge ( statistics , probability , linear
   algebra , geometry ) , combining the concepts of machine learning ( content
   based filtering , td idf vectorizer algorithm , conditional independence ,
   count vectorization ) with python language , a recommendation system for all
   people suffering from liver . liver is one of the most important organs of
   our body , because it makes 500 essential functions in the organism . but we
   have to be aware about the types of food that we use . also , we must be
   very careful with our lifestyle and diet on foods . the aim of this article
   is to recommend the most appropriate foods for a healthy liver . this
   article will help the people who suffer from liver disease to check the best
   foods maintaining the liver in a good physical condition . 2024 published by
   isres .
DE foods; health; liver; machine learning; recommendation system

---

UT 465
AR Șipoș A, 2024, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V727 IFIP, P277, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-71743-7_18
TI Simulation-Based Learning for Agri-Food Industry: A Literature Review and
   Bibliometric Analysis
AU Șipoș A; Maniu I; Florea A
TC 2
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB this paper performs a literature review and bibliometric analysis to assess
   studies of simulation based learning in the context of food industry and
   agriculture . the articles published in web of sciences database , between
   2000 and january 2024 were considered . several articles examine the
   application of simulation models in food engineering higher education while
   others are focused on processes conduct / safety / tools / supply chain from
   food industry area and monitorization / modeling / prediction in agriculture
   . the paper presents the status of the research in the context of simulation
   based learning for agri food industry and can serve as a basis for future
   studies regarding the transition from agri food 4.0 to 5.0 and stimulating
   the transfer of it skills , knowledge and digital technologies to
   agriculture , and food industry , providing updated competencies requested
   by the work market
DE agriculture; education; food industry; simulation-based learning; skills
ID agri-food; agribusiness; food chemistry; food ingredients; agri-food
   industry; bibliometrics analysis; food engineering; food industries; high
   educations; literature reviews; simulation model; simulation-based learning;
   skill; web of science; food industry

---

UT 466
AR [Anonymous], 2024, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1147 LNNS, P515, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-7880-5_44
TI Food Recommendation System Using User Preference
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2024
AB the diet recommendation system using machine learning is a system that uses
   data analysis and artificial intelligence algorithms to provide personalized
   dietary recommendations . this system aims to assist users in achieving
   their health goals by suggesting a personalized diet plan based on their
   individual needs , preferences , and health conditions . the system collects
   data from the user , such as their age , gender , height , weight , medical
   history , and dietary preferences . it then uses this data to generate a
   personalized dietary plan that is tailored to the user s needs . the machine
   learning algorithms used in the system analyze the user s dietary patterns
   and make predictions based on this analysis . the system also uses natural
   language processing ( nlp ) to extract relevant information from the user s
   food diary or other dietary records . the diet recommendation system using
   machine learning has the potential to revolutionize the way people approach
   their dietary needs . by providing personalized and accurate recommendations
   , it can help users achieve their health goals in a more efficient and
   effective way . furthermore , the system can learn from user feedback and
   improve its recommendations over time , making it even more valuable for
   users in the long term
DE classifiers; language models; machine learning; natural language processing;
   offensive language; sentiment analysis; text analysis
ID artificial intelligence algorithms; language model; language processing;
   machine learning; natural language processing; natural languages; offensive
   languages; sentiment analysis; text analysis; user preferences; adversarial
   machine learning

---

UT 467
AR Rostami M/1, 2022, IEEE ACCESS, V10, P52508, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3175317
TI A Novel Time-Aware Food Recommender-System Based on Deep Learning and Graph
   Clustering
AU Rostami M/1; Oussalah M; Farrahi V
TC 147
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2022
AB food recommender systems are considered an effective tool to help users
   adjust their eating habits and achieve a healthier diet . this paper aims to
   develop a new hybrid food recommender system to overcome the shortcomings of
   previous systems , such as ignoring food ingredients , time factor , cold
   start users , cold start food items and community aspects . the proposed
   method involves two phases : food content based recommendation and user
   based recommendation . graph clustering is used in the first phase , and a
   deep learning based approach is used in the second phase to cluster both
   users and food items . besides a holistic like approach is employed to
   account for time and user community related issues in a way that improves
   the quality of the recommendation provided to the user . we compared our
   model with a set of state of the art recommender systems using five distinct
   performance metrics : precision , recall , f1 , auc and ndcg . experiments
   using dataset extracted from allrecipes . com demonstrated that the
   developed food recommender system performed best
DE deep learning; food recommendation; graph clustering; healthcare;
   recommender system
ID behavioral research; deep learning; job analysis; behavioral science;
   collaboration; deep learning; features extraction; food recommendation;
   graph clustering; license; task analysis; time factors; recommender systems

---

UT 468
AR Rostami M, 2022, INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG IC3K - PROC,
   V3, P208
TI A Novel Explainable and Health-aware Food Recommender System
AU Rostami M; Farahi V; Berahmand K; Forouzandeh S; Ahmadian S; Oussalah M
TC 4
SO INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG IC3K - PROC
PY 2022
AB food recommendation systems are increasingly being used by online food
   services to make recommendations . health factors are often ignored in most
   of these systems , despite the fact that unhealthy diets are connected to a
   wide range of non communicable diseases . furthermore , if users do not
   receive compelling explanations about the recommended healthy foods , they
   may become hesitant to try them . in this paper , a novel explainable and
   health aware food recommender system is developed to address these
   challenges . for this purpose , user s preferences and food health factors
   are taken into account simultaneously and then a rule based mechanism is
   employed for final healthy and explainable recommendations . five
   performance metrics were used to compare our system with different new
   recommender systems . using a dataset crawled from ' allrecipes . com ' ,
   the proposed model is shown to perform best
DE explainability; food recommender system; healthy recommendation; time-aware
   recommendation
ID biomedical engineering; food products; health; online systems;
   explainability; food recommende system; foodservices; health factors;
   healthy foods; healthy recommendation; non-communicable disease; performance
   metrices; rule based mechanisms; time-aware recommendation; recommender
   systems

---

UT 469
AR Rahman AZ, 2018, INT SEMIN RES TECHNOL INTELL SYST ISRITI, P627, DOI
   10.1109/ISRITI.2018.8864385
TI Review on food recommender system for diabetes mellitus
AU Rahman AZ; Soesanti I; Wahyunggoro O
TC 2
SO INT SEMIN RES TECHNOL INTELL SYST ISRITI
PY 2018
AB diabetes mellitus ( dm ) is still a serious world health problem , including
   indonesia . who predicts an increase in the number of people with dm that
   became one of the global health threats . there are many ways to prevent or
   to cure that chronic disease like healthy nutrition and lifestyle . most of
   them are focused on how to improve the daily habit start from the food
   recommendation . many researchers already take part in this area , and the
   use of a recommender system to solve this problem is the best way to help
   the patient achieve a healthy lifestyle . this paper focuses on reviewing
   related research that has been done by the researcher and summarized the
   aspect that emphasized on each research and to find the connection between
   them
DE artificial neural network; data mining; diabetes mellitus; dietary
   recommendation; recommendation system
ID data mining; diseases; health risks; intelligent systems; neural networks;
   nutrition; chronic disease; diabetes mellitus; dietary recommendation;
   global health; healthy lifestyles; indonesia; number of peoples; recommender
   systems

---

UT 470
AR Chen Y/4, 2023, FOODS, V12, DOI 10.3390/foods12102079
TI Health-Aware Food Recommendation Based on Knowledge Graph and Multi-Task
   Learning
AU Chen Y/4; Guo Y; Fan Q; Zhang Q; Dong Y
TC 35
SO FOODS
PY 2023
AB current food recommender systems tend to prioritize either the user s
   dietary preferences or the healthiness of the food , without considering the
   importance of personalized health requirements . to address this issue , we
   propose a novel approach to healthy food recommendations that takes into
   account the user s personalized health requirements , in addition to their
   dietary preferences . our work comprises three perspectives . firstly , we
   propose a collaborative recipe knowledge graph ( ( formula presented . ) )
   with millions of triplets , containing userrecipe interactions ,
   recipeingredient associations , and other food related information .
   secondly , we define a score based method for evaluating the healthiness
   match between recipes and user preferences . based on these two prior
   perspectives , we develop a novel health aware food recommendation model ( (
   formula presented . ) ) using knowledge graph embedding and multi task
   learning . ( formula presented . ) employs a knowledge aware attention graph
   convolutional neural network to capture the semantic associations between
   users and recipes on the collaborative knowledge graph and learns the user s
   requirements in both preference and health by fusing the losses of these two
   learning tasks . we conducted experiments to demonstrate that ( formula
   presented . ) outperformed four competing baseline models in integrating
   users dietary preferences and personalized health requirements in food
   recommendations and performed best on the health task
DE food recommendation; graph convolution network; health; knowledge graph;
   multi-task learning

---

UT 471
AR Syaifudin YW, 2023, PROC - ICCTEIE INT CONF CONVERGING TECHNOL ELECTR ENG,
   P96, DOI 10.1109/ICCTEIE60099.2023.10366631
TI An Implementation of Recipe Recommendation System Based on Ingredients
   Availability Using Content-based and Collaborative Filtering
AU Syaifudin YW; Fatmawati T; Ardyningrum NA; Siradjuddin I; Puspitasari D;
   Astiningrum M
TC 1
SO PROC - ICCTEIE INT CONF CONVERGING TECHNOL ELECTR ENG
PY 2023
AB cooking is an essential part of daily life activity for many people
   worldwide to fulfill nutritional needs . basically , it is the process of
   preparing food by combining different ingredients and applying various
   cooking techniques . commonly , most people use the available ingredients
   they have on hand to prepare meals . the preferred ingredients often depend
   on what is in their pantry , refrigerator , or garden , as well as what is
   easily accessible from local grocery stores or markets . this paper presents
   an approach method to providing a list of recommended recipes based on the
   availability of ingredients and recipe selection behavior of users by
   implementing a recipe recommendation system , namely easycook . data on
   recipes is gathered from various websites that provide popular indonesian
   food recipes using the web scraping process . then , content based filtering
   is applied as an approach method to identify the similarity of recipe
   ingredients and generate recipe recommendations . to evaluate the developed
   system s effectiveness , aspects of web scraping and the recommendation
   process based on ingredient availability and user preferred recipes are
   investigated . the results show that the developed system effectively
   provides recommended recipes for users based on ingredient availability and
   user preferred recipes
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; food ingredients; recipe;
   recommendation system; web scraping
ID collaborative filtering; cooking; content-based filtering; content-based;
   daily life activities; food ingredients; grocery stores; process-based;
   recipe; system effectiveness; web scrapings; recommender systems

---

UT 472
AR Prasetyo PK, 2020, PERVASIVEHEALTH PERVASIVE COMPUT TECHNOL HEAL, P436, DOI
   10.1145/3421937.3421960
TI Foodbot: A goal-oriented just-in-time healthy eating interventions chatbot
AU Prasetyo PK; Achananuparp P; Lim E-P
TC 26
SO PERVASIVEHEALTH PERVASIVE COMPUT TECHNOL HEAL
PY 2020
AB recent research has identified a few design flaws in popular mobile health (
   mhealth ) applications for promoting healthy eating lifestyle , such as
   mobile food journals . these include tediousness of manual food logging ,
   inadequate food database coverage , and a lack of healthy dietary goal
   setting . to address these issues , we present foodbot , a chatbot based
   mhealth application for goal oriented just in time ( jit ) healthy eating
   interventions . powered by a large scale food knowledge graph , foodbot
   utilizes automatic speech recognition and mobile messaging interface to
   record food intake . moreover , foodbot allows users to set goals and guides
   their behavior toward the goals via jit notification prompts , interactive
   dialogs , and personalized recommendation . altogether , the foodbot
   framework demonstrates the use of open source data , tools , and platforms
   to build a practical mhealth solution for supporting healthy eating
   lifestyle in the general population
DE chatbot; diet; food journal; food recommendation; goal-setting; just-in-time
   intervention; knowledge graph; mhealth; self-tracking
ID knowledge representation; mhealth; nutrition; population statistics; speech
   recognition; ubiquitous computing; automatic speech recognition; general
   population; knowledge graphs; mobile health ( mhealth ); mobile messaging;
   open source datum; personalized recommendation; recent researches; just-in-
   time production

---

UT 473
AR Starke AD, 2024, USER MODEL USER ADAPT INTERACT, V34, P407, DOI
   10.1007/s11257-023-09377-8
TI “Tell Me Why”: using natural language justifications in a recipe recommender
   system to support healthier food choices
AU Starke AD; Musto C; Rapp A; Semeraro G; Trattner C
TC 17
SO USER MODEL USER ADAPT INTERACT
PY 2024
AB users of online recipe websites tend to prefer unhealthy foods . their
   popularity undermines the healthiness of traditional food recommender
   systems , as many users lack nutritional knowledge to make informed food
   decisions . moreover , the presented information is often unrelated to
   nutrition or difficult to understand . to alleviate this , we present a
   methodology to generate natural language justifications that emphasize the
   nutritional content , health risks , or benefits of recommended recipes .
   our framework takes a user and two recipes as input and produces an
   automatically generated natural language justification as output , based on
   the user s characteristics and the recipes features , following a knowledge
   based recommendation approach . we evaluated our methodology in two
   crowdsourcing studies . in study 1 ( n=502 ) , we compared user food choices
   for two personalized recommendation approaches , based on either a ( 1 )
   single style justification or ( 2 ) comparative justification was shown ,
   using a no justification baseline . the recommendations were either
   popularity based or health aware , the latter based on the health and
   nutritional needs of the user . we found that comparative justification
   styles were effective in supporting choices for our health aware
   recommendations , confirming the impact of our methodology on food choices .
   in study 2 ( n=504 ) , we used the same methodology to compare the
   effectiveness of eight different comparative justification strategies . we
   presented pairs of recipes twice to users : once without and once with a
   pairwise justification . results indicated that justifications led to
   significantly healthier choices for first course meals , while strategies
   that compared food features and emphasized health risks , benefits , and a
   user s lifestyle were most effective , catering to health related choice
   motivations
DE explanations; food; health; natural language processing; recommender
   systems; user study
ID health risks; knowledge based systems; natural language processing systems;
   nutrition; automatically generated; explanation; health benefits; healthy
   foods; knowledge based recommendations; language processing; natural
   language processing; natural languages; traditional food; user study;
   recommender systems

---

UT 474
AR Subramaniyaswamy V, 2019, J SUPERCOMPUT, V75, P3184, DOI
   10.1007/s11227-018-2331-8
TI An ontology-driven personalized food recommendation in IoT-based healthcare
   system
AU Subramaniyaswamy V; Manogaran G; Logesh R; Vijayakumar V; Chilamkurti N;
   Malathi D; Senthilselvan N
TC 179
SO J SUPERCOMPUT
PY 2019
AB the recent developments of internet technology have created premium space
   for recommender system ( rs ) to help users in their daily life . an
   effective personalized recommendation of a travel recommender system can
   reduce time and travel cost of the travelers . protrip rs addresses the
   personalization problem through exploiting user interests and preferences to
   generate suggestions . data considered for the recommendations include
   travel sequence , actions , motivations , opinions and demographic
   information of the user . protrip is completely designed to be intelligent
   and in addition , the protrip is a health centric rs which is capable of
   suggesting the food availability through considering climate attributes
   based on user s personal choice and nutritive value . a novel functionality
   of protrip supports travelers with long term diseases and followers of
   strict diet . the protrip is built on the pillars of ontological knowledge
   base and tailored filtering mechanisms . the gap between heterogeneous user
   profiles and descriptions is bridged using semantic ontologies . the
   effectiveness of recommendations is enhanced through a hybrid model of
   blended filtering approaches , and results prove that the proposed protrip
   to be a proficient system . the developed food recommendation approach is
   evaluated for the real time iot based healthcare support system . we also
   present a detailed case study on the food recommendation based health
   management . the proposed system is evaluated on real time dataset , and
   analysis of the results shows improved accuracy and efficiency compared to
   existing models
DE e-tourism; information retrieval; ontology; personalization; recommender
   systems; semantic web
ID health care; internet of things; knowledge based systems; recommender
   systems; search engines; semantic web; daily lives; e-tourism; healthcare
   systems; internet technology; ontologys; personalizations; personalized
   recommendation; reduce time; semantic web; time cost; ontology

---

UT 475
AR Geng C, 2024, PROC - IEEE ANNU COMPUT SOFTW APPL CONF COMPSAC, P1788, DOI
   10.1109/COMPSAC61105.2024.00282
TI A Location Analytics Algorithm to Analyze Geographic and Demographic Data
   for Restaurant Analytics
AU Geng C; Lafreniere G; Le HK; Leung CK; Wong QC; Cuzzocrea A
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE ANNU COMPUT SOFTW APPL CONF COMPSAC
PY 2024
AB nowadays , big data are everywhere . these include geographic and / or
   demographic data . location usually plays a critical role in determining a
   restaurant s success , especially in today s society . selecting an
   appropriate place will not only help entrepreneurs attract more customers
   but also maintain the stability of their businesses . hence , location
   analysis has always been a focused topic . however , if entrepreneurs
   consider solely the direct aspects of the location ( e . g . , rental price
   , competitors ) , it will not likely be sufficient as customer related
   aspects ( e . g . , income level , age ) also greatly affect the
   compatibility of the establishment . in this paper , we present a location
   analytics algorithm that takes this influential demographic information into
   account and analyzes the spots in combination with geographical data to
   recommend locations based on these two factors . evaluation results on real
   world data from the usa shows the practicality of our solution
DE application; big data; computer; demographics data; frequent pattern mining;
   geographic data; k-means algorithm; location analysis; restaurant analytics;
   restaurant location selection; software
ID analytic algorithm; demographic data; frequent patterns minings; geographic
   data; k-mean algorithms; location analysis; location selection; restaurant
   analytic; restaurant location selection; software; data analytics

---

UT 476
AR Yan R, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14244186
TI ForestFoodKG: A Structured Dataset and Knowledge Graph for Forest Food
   Taxonomy and Nutrition
AU Yan R; Chen Z/2; Zhou S; Niu G; Li Y/6; Liu Z/3; Wang J/4; Wu X/3; Luo Q;
   Zhou Y/2; Jin Y; Liu K; Yuan W; Xu J/1; Xu F
TC 1
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB forest foods play a vital role in enhancing dietary diversity , human health
   , and the sustainable use of forest ecosystems . however , structured and
   machine readable resources that systematically describe their taxonomic and
   nutritional attributes remain scarce . to fill this gap , we introduce
   forestfoodkg , a comprehensive resource that integrates taxonomic hierarchy
   and nutritional composition of 1191 forest food items . the resource
   consists of two components-( i ) the forestfoodkg dataset , containing
   standardized taxonomic and nutritional records across seven biological
   levels , and ( ii ) the forestfoodkg knowledge graph ( forestfoodkg kg ) ,
   which semantically links forest food entities using named entity recognition
   and relation extraction . the constructed graph comprises 4492 entities and
   14,130 semantic relations , providing a structured foundation for
   intelligent querying , nutrition analytics , and ecological informatics .
   all data were manually verified and made publicly available in csv format on
   github . forestfoodkg serves as the first structured knowledge base for
   forest foods , promoting data driven research in nutrition science ,
   sustainable forestry , and knowledge based decision making
DE dataset construction; forest food; knowledge graph; nutritional information;
   taxonomy

---

UT 477
AR Reddy BH, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT CSITSS, DOI
   10.1109/CSITSS67709.2025.11294051
TI NutriLens - A CNN-Based Dietary Management Application for Indian Cuisine
AU Reddy BH; Rao AA; Shreya M; Nandi S
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT CSITSS
PY 2025
AB nutrilens is a deep learning driven dietary management framework designed
   specifically for indian cuisine . it integrates a lightweight
   mobilenetv2-based convolutional neural network for food recognition with a
   culturally relevant nutritional database to generate personalized diet
   recommendations . the proposed system combines computer vision and
   artificial intelligence to identify dishes from food images , estimate their
   nutrient composition , and provide real time dietary guidance through an
   interactive ai chatbot . effectiveness is assessed on a curated 4,219-image
   , 80-class dataset using top 1 accuracy . the mobilenetv2-based recognizer
   achieves 65 % top 1 on the heldout validation split , demonstrating baseline
   feasibility for culturally contextual diet tracking . by emphasizing indian
   specific nutrition mappings and contextual dietary analytics , nutrilens
   bridges a critical research gap between generic food recognition models and
   culturally adaptive , health focused dietary applications
DE computer vision; convolutional neural networks ( cnn ); dietary management;
   food recognition; indian cuisine; nutritional analysis
ID agri-food; convolution; convolutional neural networks; food chemistry; food
   ingredients; nutrition; convolutional neural network; dietary management;
   food image; food recognition; indian cuisine; management applications;
   management frameworks; network-based; nutritional analyze; computer vision

---

UT 478
AR Song X, 2024, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V24, P1, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2024.12.001
TI Food Knowledge Graph-based Intelligent Perception Question Answering;
   [基于食品知识图谱的智能感知问答]
AU Song X; Jiang Q/1; Zhang W/5; Wu X/2
TC 2
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food safety is of vital importance to people s lives . with the improvement
   of living standards , public concern about food safety has also increased ,
   and the urgent need for reliable and effective information response has
   arisen . existing intelligent question answering systems , such as those
   based on text vector libraries , have made some progress in knowledge
   reasoning , problem handling , and semantic relationship recognition , but
   still have some shortcomings . question answering systems based on knowledge
   graphs face inherent challenges in terms of graph construction cost and
   information recall rate . while question answering systems based on template
   matching are poor in question generalization ability and context
   understanding . this paper proposes an innovative knowledge graph based
   intelligent perception question answering system based on large language
   models ( llm ) . using large language models to improve the shortcomings of
   the template matching method , combining text vector libraries and knowledge
   graphs at the same time , and introducing high dimensional vector semantic
   search technology into the knowledge graph retrieval process to improve the
   knowledge graph retrieval recall rate . this innovative approach
   significantly improves the overall performance of the question answering
   system and the user s experience . 2024 chinese institute of food science
   and technology
DE artificial intelligence; food safety; intelligent question answering;
   knowledge graph; large language models
ID question answering; template matching; food safety; graph-based; intelligent
   perception; intelligent question answering; knowledge graphs; language
   model; large language model; question answering; question answering systems;
   recall rate; knowledge graph

---

UT 479
AR Vivek MB, 2018, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V14, P11, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-10-5146-3_2
TI Machine learning based food recipe recommendation system
AU Vivek MB; Manju N; Vijay MB
TC 28
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2018
AB recommender systems make use of user profiles and filtering technologies to
   help users to find appropriate information over large volume of data . users
   profile is important for successful recommendations . in this paper , we
   present two approaches to recommend recipes based on preferences of the user
   given in the form of ratings and compare them to identify which approach
   suits the dataset better . we use two approaches namely , item based
   approach and user based approach to recommend recipes . for item based
   approach tanimoto coefficient similarity and log likelihood similarity would
   be used to compute similarities between different recipes . for user based
   approach euclidean distance and pearson correlation are used . we use
   similarity techniques of user based approach and introduce fixed size
   neighborhood and threshold based neighborhood to the same . the performance
   of the user based approach is found to be better than item based approach .
   the performance for the allrecipe data set is found to be better than the
   simulated dataset since there are more number of interactions between users
   and items . springer nature singapore pte ltd . 2018 .
DE collaborative filtering; fixed size neighborhood; item-based; threshold-
   based neighborhood; user-based

---

UT 480
AR Ponte D, 2024, PROC INT JT CONF COMPUT VIS IMAGING COMPUT GR THEORY APPL,
   V2, P624, DOI 10.5220/0012388200003660
TI Ontology-Driven Deep Learning Model for Multitask Visual Food Analysis
AU Ponte D; Aguilar E; Ribera M/1; Radeva P
TC 2
SO PROC INT JT CONF COMPUT VIS IMAGING COMPUT GR THEORY APPL
PY 2024
AB the food analysis from images is a challenging task that has gained
   significant attention due to its multiple applications , especially in the
   field of health and nutrition . ontology driven deep learning techniques
   have shown promising results in improving model performance . food ontology
   can leverage domain specific information to guide model learning and thus
   substantially enhance the food analysis . in this paper , we propose a new
   ontology driven multi task learning approach for food recognition . to this
   end , we deal multi modal information , text and images , in order to
   extract from the text the food ontology , which represents prior knowledge
   about the relationship of food concepts at different semantic levels ( e . g
   . food groups and food names ) , and apply this information to guide the
   learning of the multi task model to perform the task at hand . the proposed
   method was validated on the public food dataset named mafood 121 ,
   specifically on dishes belonging to mexican cuisine , outperforming the
   results obtained in single label food recognition and multi label food group
   recognition . moreover , the proposed integration of the ontology into the
   deep learning framework allows providing more consistent results across the
   tasks . 2024 by scitepress science and technology publications , lda .
DE food image analysis; food ontology; multi-task learning

---

UT 481
AR Anitha E, 2023, IEEE ENG INFORMATICS EI, DOI
   10.1109/IEEECONF58110.2023.10520567
TI Effective Food Demand Forecasting Using Machine Learning Algorithms
AU Anitha E; Navin Prasath M; Sanjai L; Andrea Shiny JA; Varsini P
TC 3
SO IEEE ENG INFORMATICS EI
PY 2023
AB demand forecasting is a fundamental strategy used by companies to predict
   future demand for their goods and services based on an examination of
   historical demand in light of the present state of the market . the food
   business places a lot of importance on this process . accurate forecasting
   is necessary in the food business since perishables have a short shelf life
   and because operating costs to rise . the goal of this project is to use
   historical data to predict weekly grocery shipments for a given business .
   the business intends to create a solid forecasting model that can precisely
   estimate future demand for food delivery by examining historical demand
   patterns , industry trends , and other pertinent aspects . we can use this
   information to streamline operations , plan inventory , and allocate
   resources efficiently . accurate demand forecasting has many benefits for
   food delivery and restaurant businesses . first , we can optimize work
   distribution and schedule the right number of employees during peak demand
   periods , while avoiding unnecessary spending during low peak periods .
   second , food waste can be minimized by enabling businesses to source and
   stock the right amount of ingredients and perishables . this reduces the
   risk of corruption and allows for better cost control . finally , accurate
   demand forecasting improves overall customer satisfaction by ensuring on
   time delivery and menu item availability , leading to increased customer
   loyalty and positive reviews . historical data from company operations is
   used to develop effective demand forecasting models . by accurately
   predicting future demand , businesses can adjust pricing and advertising
   strategies to maximize sales and profits . for instance , if the system
   forecasts strong demand for a specific product during a specific season ,
   the business can raise the product s price to improve profits during that
   time
ID forecasting; learning algorithms; machine learning; operating costs;
   profitability; sales; demand forecasting; food business; food delivery; food
   demand; forecasting models; good and services; historical data; machine
   learning algorithms; service-based; shelf life; customer satisfaction

---

UT 482
AR Popovski G, 2020, IEEE ACCESS, V8, P31586, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2973502
TI A Survey of Named-Entity Recognition Methods for Food Information Extraction
AU Popovski G; Seljak BK; Eftimov T
TC 57
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2020
AB as great amounts of food related information is presented in the form of
   heterogeneous textual data , computer based methods are useful to
   automatically extract such information . one way to do this is to utilize
   named entity recognition ( ner ) methods that are broadly used in computer
   science for information extraction . despite the existence of numerous and
   well versed ner methods in the biomedical domain , the domain of food
   science still remains scarcely resourced . in this paper , we provide an
   overview and a comparison of named entity recognition methods in the food
   domain , which can be used for automated extraction of food information from
   text . four methods are discussed : foodie , ncbo ( snomed ct ) , ncbo (
   ontofood ) , and ncbo ( foodon ) . we compare them using a benchmark data
   set that consists of 1000 manually annotated recipes initially obtained from
   allrecipes , which is the largest social network focused on food . after
   analyzing the results from the evaluation , it is evident that foodie
   obtains very promising results compared to the other food named entity
   recognition methods taken into consideration
DE benchmarking; food information extraction; food ontology; named entity
   recognition
ID artificial intelligence; benchmarking; information retrieval; automated
   extraction; benchmark data; biomedical domain; computer-based methods; food
   ontology; food science; named entity recognition; textual data; character
   recognition

---

UT 483
AR Lubasinski N, 2024, NUTR, V16, DOI 10.3390/nu16142214
TI Blood Glucose Prediction from Nutrition Analytics in Type 1 Diabetes: A
   Review
AU Lubasinski N; Thabit H; Nutter PW; Harper S
TC 6
SO NUTR
PY 2024
AB introduction : type 1 diabetes ( t1d ) affects over 9 million worldwide and
   necessitates meticulous self management for blood glucose ( bg ) control .
   utilizing bg prediction technology allows for increased bg control and a
   reduction in the diabetes burden caused by self management requirements .
   this paper reviews bg prediction models in t1d , which include nutritional
   components . method : a systematic search , utilizing the prisma guidelines
   , identified articles focusing on bg prediction algorithms for t1d that
   incorporate nutritional variables . eligible studies were screened and
   analyzed for model type , inclusion of additional aspects in the model ,
   prediction horizon , patient population , inputs , and accuracy . results :
   the study categorizes 138 blood glucose prediction models into data driven (
   54 % ) , physiological ( 14 % ) , and hybrid ( 33 % ) types . prediction
   horizons of 30 min are used in 36 % of models , 3160 min in 34 % , 6190 min
   in 11 % , 91120 min in 10 % , and > 120 min in 9 % . neural networks are the
   most used data driven technique ( 47 % ) , and simple carbohydrate intake is
   commonly included in models ( data driven : 72 % , physiological : 52 % ,
   hybrid : 67 % ) . real or free living data are predominantly used ( 83 % ) .
   conclusion : the primary goal of blood glucose prediction in t1d is to
   enable informed decisions and maintain safe bg levels , considering the
   impact of all nutrients for meal planning and clinical relevance
DE blood glucose prediction; data-driven models; hybrid models; nutrition;
   personalized medicine; physiological models; prisma guidelines; t1d; type 1
   diabetes
ID algorithms; blood glucose; blood glucose self-monitoring; diabetes mellitus
   type 1; glycemic control; humans; neural networks computer; carbohydrate
   intake; dietary intake; gluconeogenesis; glucose blood level; glucose
   metabolism; human; insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; insulin metabolism;
   lifestyle; nutrition; personalized medicine; prediction; review; algorithm;
   artificial neural network; blood; glycemic control; metabolism; procedures;
   self-monitoring blood glucose

---

UT 484
AR Guidotti R, 2020, PROC - IEEE INT CONF COGN MACH INTELL COGMI, P62, DOI
   10.1109/CogMI50398.2020.00018
TI Interpretable next basket prediction boosted with representative recipes
AU Guidotti R; Viotto S
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF COGN MACH INTELL COGMI
PY 2020
AB food is an essential element of our lives , cultures , and a crucial part of
   human experience . the study of food purchases can drive the design of
   practical services such as next basket predictor and shopping list reminder
   . current approaches aimed at realizing these services do not exploit a
   contextual dimension involving food , i . e . , recipes . to this aim , we
   design a next basket predictor based on representative recipes able to
   exploit the interest of customers toward certain ingredients when making the
   recommendation . the proposed method first identifies the representative
   recipes of a customer by analyzing her purchases and then estimates the
   rating of the items for the prediction . the ratings are based on both the
   purchases and the ingredients of the representative recipes . in addition ,
   through our method , it is easy to justify why a specific set of items is
   predicted while such explanations are often not easily available in many
   other effective but opaque recommenders . experimentation on a real world
   dataset shows that the usage of recipes leverages the performance of
   existing next basket predictors
DE food mining; interpretable recommender systems; next basket prediction;
   recipe analytics
ID sales; contextual dimensions; essential elements; real-world; shopping
   lists; artificial intelligence

---

UT 485
AR Lei Z, 2021, EXPERT SYS APPL, V186, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2021.115708
TI Is the suggested food your desired?: Multi-modal recipe recommendation with
   demand-based knowledge graph
AU Lei Z; Ul Haq A; Zeb A; Suzauddola M; Zhang D/1
TC 48
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2021
AB personalized recipe recommender systems help users mine certain dishes they
   want to find and even really desire , which play a significant role in
   matching dishes , balancing nutrients , and preventing non communicable
   diseases . generally , customer s preferences or needs vary from person to
   person , and people are often reluctant to accept recommended food without
   reasonable explanation , especially when their demands are not explicitly
   addressed . in this paper , we are devoted to providing recipe suggestions
   accompanied by rational interpretations generated from images or videos .
   first , we construct a recipe knowledge graph ( rcpkg ) through the use of
   multi modality and hierarchical thought , which focuses on the underlying
   demands of users and the consideration of multiple fine grained factors . on
   this basis , a novel multi modal recipe recommendation method via the
   knowledge graph ( rcpmkr ) is proposed , which represents nodes in multiple
   aspects and performs multi relational graph structure extraction of the
   rcpkg . it not only takes into account local associations within the graph
   but also global information , and incorporates user concerns at different
   levels . then , we adopt bert based multi modal models and generative
   adversarial networks to generate interpretations . additionally , dynamic
   convolution and random synthetic attention are utilized in our work to
   discriminate among features . experimental results show that the proposed
   method and bert based fusion models improve recipe recommendation
   performance and explanation generation . specifically , the precision of the
   rcpmkr method through rcpkg , user concerns and graph convolutional network
   improves by 7.82 % , and the viexpcbtbert method via 2d and 3d convolutional
   neural networks for developing text interpretations enhances the f1-score by
   10 % compared with the baseline
DE bert; interpretation generation; knowledge graph; multi-modality; recipe
   recommender
ID neural networks; bert; customer need; customer preferences; interpretation
   generation; knowledge graphs; matchings; multi-modal; multi-modality; non-
   communicable disease; recipe recommende; convolution

---

UT 486
AR Sharma K, 2023, INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT, DOI
   10.1109/CONIT59222.2023.10205379
TI Food Recommendation System Based on Collaborative Filtering and Taste
   Profiling
AU Sharma K; Mandapatti KV; Pattekar MC; Kumar KKT; Srinivasa G
TC 11
SO INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT
PY 2023
AB with restaurant menus becoming vast and dish names complicated , we present
   a recommendation system to facilitate ordering food at restaurants . the
   design approach is three pronged and comprises the following options : ( i )
   recommendations for you : menu items that are custom selected for a user
   through collaborative filtering based on the rating of dishes previously
   ordered and a targeted model that selects items based on a detailed
   comparison of reviews , such as any mention of ingredients , cooking
   technique , etc . , where such reviews are available , ( ii ) similar items
   : recommendations that provide alternatives based on the ingredients and
   similar method of preparation of items previously selected and ( iii )
   frequently bought together : recommendations that target increasing the
   revenue per order based on association rule mining using the apriori
   algorithm . all these models have been incorporated into an existing food
   ordering platform-' instead '-developed by the team and beta tested at
   multiple locations . the recommendation system presented in this work will
   enable a user to walk into any restaurant and order an item consistent with
   their taste palette
DE association rule mining; collaborative filtering; food recommendation;
   natural language processing; taste profile
ID association rules; data mining; natural language processing systems;
   recommender systems; apriori algorithms; design approaches; food
   recommendation; item-based; language processing; menu items; natural
   language processing; natural languages; taste profile; taste profiling;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 487
AR Dhanush Gowda R, 2025, INT CONF INNOV TRENDS TECHNOL SECUR TRUST SOC
   RESPONSIBLE AI ICITIIT, DOI 10.1109/ICITIIT64777.2025.11040294
TI NutriVision: YOLO-SAM-Driven Dietary App for Personalized Food
   Recommendation and Meal Tracking
AU Dhanush Gowda R; Abhilash GM; Eshwar M; Achuth SC; Sunanda HG
TC 1
SO INT CONF INNOV TRENDS TECHNOL SECUR TRUST SOC RESPONSIBLE AI ICITIIT
PY 2025
AB india s diverse cuisine and lack of nutritional awareness contribute
   significantly to lifestyle diseases . the rising prevalence of such diseases
   has increased the demand for personalized dietary advice , highlighting the
   need for effective nutrition monitoring . current solutions often rely on
   time consuming manual food data entry or costly consultations with
   dietitians , making them inaccessible to many . the proposed android
   application personalizes nutrition management by first gathering user data (
   age , weight , height , physical activity level , health conditions ) to
   calculate tdee and individual macronutrient requirements . users then
   capture meal images , which are analyzed using yolov11 for food detection
   and sam for precise segmentation . based on nutritional analysis and the
   user s health condition , the app offers safe , healthier food
   recommendations and updates a dashboard that tracks daily nutrient intake
   and meal history . the research focuses on integrating yolo , sam , and
   recommendation based meal tracking to enhance dietary management . in
   nutrivision , the object detection model reliably identifies and classifies
   food items , while sam ensures precise segmentation with clearly defined
   object masks . the outputs from these models are used for nutritional
   analysis , which evaluates the macronutrient content of each item . this
   analysis then informs tailored food recommendations , delivering
   personalized dietary suggestions and enhancing the overall user experience
DE food recommendation; food segmentation; nutritional analysis; object
   detection; sam ( segment anything model ); yolov11
ID image segmentation; information management; nutrients; nutrition; object
   recognition; current; food recommendation; food segmentation; health
   condition; lifestyle disease; model-driven; nutritional analyze; objects
   detection; segment anything model; yolov11; object detection

---

UT 488
AR Yusof NM, 2017, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V10675 LNCS, P318, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-70682-5_22
TI Semantically enhanced case adaptation for dietary menu recommendation of
   diabetic patients
AU Yusof NM; Noah SAM
TC 6
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2017
AB dietary menu planning for diabetic patients is a complicated tasks involving
   specific and common sense knowledge . case based approach has been used to
   provide recommendation in the case where ratings were not easily available
   for domains such as menu planning . among the important but yet difficult
   tasks in the case based approach is case adaptation . to successfully
   support case adaptation , the constraint based approach and food composition
   ontology were employed . constraints knowledge were represented as
   production rules and exploits the food ontology to support adaptation . an
   ontological approach is also proposed to perform the inference process to
   satisfy the multiple design constraints . 2017 , springer international
   publishing ag .
DE case adaptation; dietary menu planning; knowledge based recommendation;
   ontology
ID knowledge based systems; semantic web; semantics; case adaptation; case
   based approach; commonsense knowledge; design constraints; dietary menu;
   inference process; knowledge based recommendations; ontological approach;
   ontology

---

UT 489
AR Dev A, 2017, INDIACOM; INT CONF "COMPUT SUSTAIN GLOB DEV" INDIACOM, P2707
TI Food Recommendation System Using Named Entity Recognition
AU Dev A; Verma S; Pandey P
TC 0
SO INDIACOM; INT CONF "COMPUT SUSTAIN GLOB DEV" INDIACOM
PY 2017
AB restaurant recommendation systems are capable of recommending restaurants
   based on various aspects such as location , facilities and price range .
   there exists some research that implements restaurant recommendation systems
   as well as some famous online recommendation systems such as zomato .
   however , automatically rating individual food items of a restaurant based
   on online customer reviews is an area that has not received much attention .
   this paper presents a system capable of rating individual food items in
   restaurants . it makes use of named entity recognition ( ner ) techniques to
   identify food names in restaurant reviews . typed dependency technique is
   used to identify opinions associated with different food names in a single
   sentence , thus it was possible to carry out entity level analysis to rate
   individual food items instead of sentence level sentiment analysis .
   indiacom 2017 .
DE data; food name extraction; named entity recognition; opinion mining
ID data mining; recommender systems; sentiment analysis; data; entity-level;
   food name extraction; named entity recognition; online customer reviews;
   opinion mining; restaurant reviews; sentence level; sentiment analysis;
   online systems

---

UT 490
AR Wahyunita L, 2024, INT CONF ICT SMART SOC INTEGR DATA ARTIF INTELL RESILIENT
   SUSTAIN FUTUR LIVING ICISS - PROCEEDING, DOI
   10.1109/ICISS62896.2024.10751411
TI Need Analysis for Community-Based Food Recommendation System
AU Wahyunita L; Langi AZR; Koesoema AP
TC 0
SO INT CONF ICT SMART SOC INTEGR DATA ARTIF INTELL RESILIENT SUSTAIN FUTUR
   LIVING ICISS - PROCEEDING
PY 2024
AB the application of technology aims to improve the quality of life of its
   users . technology can also help address individual users issues by
   empowering the social resources formed within communities . technology plays
   a role in enhancing functionality and value co creation by implementing
   community computing . one implementation of community computing is through
   recommendation systems applicable in the food domain . food recommendation
   systems are still a topic of research requiring investigation in various
   aspects . there is a wide and varied spread of food related information
   available on the internet . food is an essential aspect of human daily life
   . healthy food is a key factor in proper growth and development and can aid
   in the prevention of malnutrition . however , the mindset that healthy food
   is expensive persists , resulting in many middle to lower income groups
   being unable to optimize the consumption of a balanced and healthy diet
   within a budget . in the prevention of malnutrition , another crucial factor
   is the dissemination of information regarding access to and distribution of
   healthy food available in the community . this paper try to construct the
   requirements analysis for community computing on smart food recommendation
   domain . the results of this analysis will be used as the basis for
   engineering in the development of smart food recommendations in the future
   research
DE community computing; malnutrition; smart food recommendation system
ID community computing; community-based; daily lives; healthy foods;
   malnutrition; need analysis; quality of life; smart food recommendation
   system; social resources; value co creations

---

UT 491
AR Castiglia G, 2022, CEUR WORK PROC, V3294, P29
TI Nudging Towards Health in a Conversational Food Recommender System Using
   Multi-Modal Interactions and Nutrition Labels
AU Castiglia G; El Majjodi A; Calò F; Deldjoo Y; Narducci F; Starke A; Trattner
   C
TC 4
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2022
AB humans engage with other humans and their surroundings through various
   modalities , most notably speech , sight , and touch . in a conversation ,
   all these inputs provide an overview of how another person is feeling . when
   translating these modalities to a digital context , most of them are
   unfortunately lost . the majority of existing conversational recommender
   systems ( crss ) rely solely on natural language or basic click based
   interactions . this work is one of the first studies to examine the
   influence of multi modal interactions in a conversational food recommender
   system . in particular , we examined the effect of three distinct
   interaction modalities : pure textual , multi modal ( text plus visuals ) ,
   and multi modal supplemented with nutritional labeling . we conducted a user
   study ( n=195 ) to evaluate the three interaction modalities in terms of how
   effectively they supported users in selecting healthier foods . structural
   equation modeling revealed that users engaged more extensively with the
   multi modal system that was annotated with labels , compared to the system
   with a single modality , and in turn evaluated it as more effective
DE digital nudges; food recommendation; health; nutrition labels;
   personalization
ID recommender systems; conversational recommender systems; digital nudge; food
   recommendation; multi-modal; multi-modal interaction; natural languages;
   nutrition label; nutritional labeling; personalizations; user study;
   nutrition

---

UT 492
AR Rudraraju A, 2026, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V480 SIST, P391, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-20121-8_34
TI Eatsify AI: Smart Recipe Suggestions Powered by AI and NLP
AU Rudraraju A; Sri TN; Chandrika US; Pula VNA; Yamini S
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB eating healthy and planning meals that match our lifestyle is often
   difficult , especially with busy schedules . to address this , eatsify was
   developed as a smart recipe generator that suggests recipes based on what
   the user needs and prefers . users can enter details like available
   ingredients , diet type ( such as vegan or gluten free ) , health conditions
   ( like diabetes or thyroid ) , cuisine choice , cooking time , meal type ,
   and even how simple or complex they want the recipe to be . the app uses the
   api and recipe databases to create personalized recipes and also provides
   calorie information for each dish . in addition , it can connect with
   grocery shopping options , making it easier to get the required ingredients
   . with a simple interface built using streamlit , eatsify helps people save
   time , eat smarter , and follow a healthier lifestyle with the support of
   technology
DE body mass index based recommendations; calorie estimation; dietary
   preferences; health-based meal planning; recipe recommendation system
ID cooking; food chemistry; food ingredients; food science; body mass; body
   mass index based recommendation; calorie estimations; dietary preference;
   gluten-free; health-based meal planning; mass index; recipe recommendation
   system; simple++; user need; nutrition

---

UT 493
AR Siddiqui M, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P150179, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3592210
TI A Regionally Adaptable Nutrition Centric Food Recommendation System (FR-
   RANC)
AU Siddiqui M; Akther F; Ehsan Ur Rahman GM; Mostafa R
TC 3
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB the regionally adaptable nutrition centric food recommendation system ( fr
   ranc ) introduces a holistic approach to personalized dietary
   recommendations that addresses the limitations of existing nutrition systems
   that often overlook regional food availability , economic conditions , and
   comprehensive nutrient requirements . utilizing a decision support system (
   dss ) and an optimization algorithm , the system integrates user specific
   data , including age , gender , health conditions , and socioeconomic status
   , with region specific food databases to generate personalized food lists
   that meet macro and micronutrient needs . unlike traditional systems , which
   focus on a few nutrients or specific medical conditions , fr ranc provides a
   holistic solution by considering a broader range of nutrients and adapting
   them to various regional and economic contexts . the initial evaluation ,
   based on systematically generated test cases , demonstrated the system s
   capability to achieve approximately 90 % compliance with macronutrient
   targets . at the same time , micronutrient results exhibit a narrow
   distribution around the mean , indicating strong alignment with recommended
   requirements , even across varying health conditions , such as diabetes ,
   cardiovascular issues , and pregnancy . furthermore , fr ranc effectively
   addresses cold start and scalability issues , as observed in traditional
   systems . these results underscore its potential as a proactive tool for
   promoting balanced nutrition , supporting healthcare professionals , and
   addressing global nutritional disparities
DE database integration; decision support system; nutrient optimization;
   nutrition recommendation system; personalized diet; regional adaptability;
   simulated annealing; socioeconomic factors
ID artificial intelligence; economics; nutrients; nutrition; starting;
   databases integrations; decision supports; health condition; nutrient
   optimization; nutrition recommendation system; personalized diet; regional
   adaptability; socioeconomic factor; support systems; traditional systems;
   simulated annealing

---

UT 494
AR Malathi M, 2022, INT CONF I-SMAC (IOT SOC MOB ANAL CLOUD) I-SMAC - PROC,
   P876, DOI 10.1109/I-SMAC55078.2022.9987306
TI Rating-based Restaurant and Food Recommendation System using Nearest
   Neighbor Algorithm
AU Malathi M; Sarujith S; Menon S
TC 10
SO INT CONF I-SMAC (IOT SOC MOB ANAL CLOUD) I-SMAC - PROC
PY 2022
AB nowadays , people prefer restaurants more than for special occasions .
   simultaneously , availability of many restaurants in many areas and online
   food ordering platforms increases the reach of restaurants and restaurant
   food for people . proposing a recommendation system will help the people to
   identify preferred food and restaurants rather than searching a list of
   restaurants and food items . recommending restaurants and food items based
   on people s rating on food items shows the quality of that food item in that
   restaurant and increases the reliability to new users on this recommendation
   system as the ratings are given by public users
DE content-based filtering; food recommendation; nearest neighbor algorithm;
   restaurant recommendation
ID content-based filtering; food recommendation; item-based; nearest neighbor
   algorithms; restaurant recommendation; recommender systems

---

UT 495
AR Chotipant S, 2022, INT JT CONF COMPUT SCI SOFTW ENG JCSSE, DOI
   10.1109/JCSSE54890.2022.9836293
TI Semantic-based Thai Recipe Recommendation
AU Chotipant S
TC 7
SO INT JT CONF COMPUT SCI SOFTW ENG JCSSE
PY 2022
AB nowadays , people are constantly affected by epidemics such as covid 19 . to
   reduce the risk of acquiring germs in the community , people s lifestyles
   have been changed , and they are more inclined to cook for themselves .
   typically , people can usually quickly and easily find recipe information
   via websites and applications . the resulting recipes consist of ingredients
   as specified by the user . unfortunately , users often have ingredients that
   disappear in available cooking recipes . this makes the system is unable to
   recommend all relevant recipes to users , although the users can use the
   existing ingredients instead of the ingredients specified in the recipes .
   based on this limitation , this research proposes a semantic based thai
   cooking recipe recommendation system which can recommend recipes based on
   the ingredient substitutes . this research uses existing thai food ontology
   to retrieve substitute ingredients based on three different ingredient
   properties , such as smell , taste , and texture . to recommend cooking
   recipes , the system expands the given user queries with substitute
   ingredients and then calculates similarities between all queries and each
   cooking recipe . recipes with high similarities are presented and ranked to
   users . to evaluate the performances , precision , recall and f measure are
   applied . the experiments demonstrate that the proposed method performs well
   with 0.96 , 0.72 , and 0.82 in precision , recall , and f measure
   respectively
DE ingredient substitution; semantic-based recommendation; thai cooking recipe
ID cooking; covid-19; textures; cooking recipe; f-measure; food ontology;
   ingredient substitution; performance measure; property; research use;
   semantic-based recommendation; thai cooking recipe; user query; semantics

---

UT 496
AR Peneti S, 2025, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS, P1788, DOI
   10.1109/ICAISS61471.2025.11041980
TI Blood Glucose Prediction from Nutrition Analytics using ML
AU Peneti S; Swapna N; Bhavana M; Vadlamudi S/1; Rani BP; Manyam T
TC 2
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2025
AB the worldwide health problem of diabetes demands new approaches to managed
   blood glucose effectively . a predictive instrument developed from machine
   learning technology produces blood glucose level projection through analysis
   of dietary consumption combined with individual physiological factors . the
   gradient boosting regression algorithm enables the system to make blood
   glucose prediction through analysis of glycemic index with carbohydrate
   content plus protein and fiber while also accounting for type of diabetes
   and patient data points of age , weight and skin thickness . through the use
   of this forecasting tool diabetic patients gain better capabilities to
   select proper diet options which lead to improved health outcomes . new
   innovations will add real time monitoring capabilities to wearable tech
   devices which will improve the accuracy of personalized predictions
DE blood glucose prediction; diabetes management; gradient boosting; machine
   learning; nutrition analytics
ID adaptive boosting; bioinformatics; blood; forecasting; information use;
   learning systems; machine learning; nutrition; wearable technology; blood
   glucose; blood glucose level; blood glucose prediction; diabetes management;
   gradient boosting; machine learning technology; machine learning; new
   approaches; nutrition analytic; physiological factors; glucose

---

UT 497
AR Kamble SS, 2020, INT J PROD ECON, V219, P179, DOI 10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.05.022
TI Achieving sustainable performance in a data-driven agriculture supply chain:
   A review for research and applications
AU Kamble SS; Gunasekaran A; Gawankar SA
TC 894
SO INT J PROD ECON
PY 2020
AB the lack of industrialization , inadequacy of the management , information
   inaccuracy , and inefficient supply chains are the significant issues in an
   agri food supply chain . the proposed solutions to overcome these challenges
   should not only consider the way the food is produced but also take care of
   societal , environmental and economic concerns . there has been increasing
   use of emerging technologies in the agriculture supply chains . the internet
   of things , the blockchain , and big data technologies are potential
   enablers of sustainable agriculture supply chains . these technologies are
   driving the agricultural supply chain toward a digital supply chain
   environment that is data driven . realizing the significance of a data
   driven sustainable agriculture supply chain we extracted and reviewed 84
   academic journals from 2000 to 2017 . the primary purpose of the review was
   to understand the level of analytics used ( descriptive , predictive and
   prescriptive ) , sustainable agriculture supply chain objectives attained (
   social , environmental and economic ) , the supply chain processes from
   where the data is collected , and the supply chain resources deployed for
   the same . based on the results of the review , we propose an application
   framework for the practitioners involved in the agri food supply chain that
   identifies the supply chain visibility and supply chain resources as the
   main driving force for developing data analytics capability and achieving
   the sustainable performance . the framework will guide the practitioners to
   plan their investments to build a robust data driven agri food supply chain
   . finally , we outline the future research directions and limitations of our
   study
DE agriculture supply chain; big data; blockchain; data analytics; food supply
   chain; supply chain resources; supply chain visibility; sustainability;
   sustainable performance
ID agriculture; big data; blockchain; data analytics; food supply; investments;
   predictive analytics; sustainable development; visibility; agri-food supply
   chains; agricultural supply chains; future research directions; information
   inaccuracy; research and application; supply chain visibility; sustainable
   agriculture; sustainable performance; supply chains

---

UT 498
AR Jalali A, 2022, IEEE INT CONF CONVERG TECHNOL I2CT, DOI
   10.1109/I2CT54291.2022.9824896
TI Mobile Application for Personalized Food Recommendation
AU Jalali A; Arjun Manoj KP; Amulya N; Siddiqua A; Singh AK/1; Hari Krishna SM
TC 5
SO IEEE INT CONF CONVERG TECHNOL I2CT
PY 2022
AB personalization in business products has always proven to be a powerful
   marketing approach by which businesses collect data from users , analyze
   data and use machine learning ( ml ) algorithms to deliver relevant
   personalized content to the user . ml has shown to be a ground breaking
   technology that can be used in the everyday decision making processes of our
   lives . a personalized food recommender caters to the exact need and taste
   of the user taking in account factors like the weather , temperature , type
   of diet and time of the day . this paper illustrates the design of the
   application that takes inputs from the user , analyzes the data and feeds it
   to the machine learning algorithm . the algorithm works on the concept of
   content based filtering and a collaborative filtering model . an item
   feature similarity and item user similarity matrices are created . based on
   these values most similar food items are recommended on the application
DE collaborative filtering and content-based recommenders; food recommendation;
   personalization; recommendation systems
ID decision making; learning algorithms; machine learning; business products;
   collaborative filtering and content-based recommender; content-based; food
   recommendation; machine learning algorithms; machine learning; mobile
   applications; personalizations; personalized content; user analysis;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 499
AR Pecune F, 2022, ROBOT AI, V8, DOI 10.3389/frobt.2021.733835
TI Designing Persuasive Food Conversational Recommender Systems With Nudging
   and Socially-Aware Conversational Strategies
AU Pecune F; Callebert L; Marsella S
TC 35
SO ROBOT AI
PY 2022
AB unhealthy eating behavior is a major public health issue with serious
   repercussions on an individual s health . one potential solution to overcome
   this problem , and help people change their eating behavior , is to develop
   conversational systems able to recommend healthy recipes . one challenge for
   such systems is to deliver personalized recommendations matching users needs
   and preferences . beyond the intrinsic quality of the recommendation itself
   , various factors might also influence users perception of a recommendation
   . in this paper , we present cora , a conversational system that recommends
   recipes aligned with its users eating habits and current preferences . users
   can interact with cora in two different ways . they can select pre defined
   answers by clicking on buttons to talk to cora or write text in natural
   language . additionally , cora can engage users through a social dialog , or
   go straight to the point . cora is also able to propose different
   alternatives and to justify its recipes recommendation by explaining the
   trade off between them . we conduct two experiments . in the first one , we
   evaluate the impact of cora s conversational skills and users interaction
   mode on users perception and intention to cook the recommended recipes . our
   results show that a conversational recommendation system that engages its
   users through a rapport building dialog improves users perception of the
   interaction as well as their perception of the system . in the second
   evaluation , we evaluate the influence of cora s explanations and
   recommendation comparisons on users perception . our results show that
   explanations positively influence users perception of a recommender system .
   however , comparing healthy recipes with a decoy is a double edged sword .
   although such comparison is perceived as significantly more useful compared
   to one single healthy recommendation , explaining the difference between the
   decoy and the healthy recipe would actually make people less likely to use
   the system
DE conversational agents; food recommender systems; health-aware; nudging;
   socially aware

---

UT 500
AR Carvalho M, 2021, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V177 LNNS, P309, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-33-4501-0_30
TI Implementation of Smart Diet Assistance Application
AU Carvalho M; Kotian P; George H; Pawade D; Dalvi A; Siddavatam I
TC 2
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2021
AB the number of health and fitness platforms has increased drastically over
   the years , because of the people s desire to live more healthy lifestyles .
   keeping this need in mind , we have proposed a mobile application that would
   be seen as a pocket assistant to track meals , get suggestions and get a
   check on one s personal goals and health . the application aims provide user
   friendly solution in order to give the best guidance and advice on nutrition
   plans and tracking them . along with that meal recommendation feature is
   provided so that user can get the healthy food suggestion based on his
   eating pattern . in some cases , user may want to explore the nearby hotels
   where he can get suggested dishes , to cater this requirement we have
   incorporated the location based hotel recommendation feature . the main
   objective of our study is to provide a diet monitoring application which is
   not only easy to use but also capable enough to track the nutrition record
   and provide solution accordingly
DE barcode scanning; diet monitoring; food recommendation system; location-
   based hotel recommendation system; pearson correlation; voice input
   processing

---

UT 501
AR Gjorgjevikj A, 2026, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V12, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2026.101351
TI Large language models in food and nutrition science: Opportunities,
   challenges, and the case of FoodyLLM
AU Gjorgjevikj A; Martinc M; Cenikj G; Stojanov R; Drole J; Ispirova G;
   Menichetti G; Ogrinc N; Trajanov D; Džeroski S; Seljak BK/1; Eftimov T
TC 1
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB background : reliable nutrient profiling and semantic interoperability are
   essential for scalable dietary assessment , food labeling ( e . g . ,
   traffic light schemes ) , and fair integration of food composition and
   consumption data . however , general purpose large language models ( llms )
   are not systematically exposed to structured recipenutrition mappings and
   food ontologies , limiting their accuracy and trustworthiness in food and
   nutrition tasks . scope and approach : we review recent llm advances in life
   sciences and healthcare and analyze the gap in food and nutrition
   applications . to address this gap , we introduce foodyllm , a domain
   specialized llm fine tuned on 225k task aligned qa pairs for ( i ) recipe
   nutrient estimation , ( ii ) traffic light classification , and ( iii )
   ontology based entity linking to support fair food data interoperability .
   we benchmark foodyllm against strong general purpose baselines ( e . g . ,
   llama 3 8b , gemini 2.0 ) under zero-/few shot prompting across five
   evaluation folds . key findings : across all tasks , foodyllm substantially
   outperforms general purpose llms for nutrient estimation across all
   macronutrients ( fat , protein , salt , saturates , sugar ) , accuracy
   increases from 0.43 to 0.63 to 0.910.97 . for traffic light classification
   across all nutrients and color categories , macro f1 improves from 0.46 to
   0.80 to 0.860.97 . and for ontology based food entity linking across foodon
   , snomed ct , and hansard , macro f1 increases from 0.33 to 0.44 ( best
   general purpose baseline ) to 0.930.98 on artificial nel data , and from
   0.24 to 0.51 to 0.670.84 on real corpora ( cafeteriasa and cafeteriafcd ) .
   overall , our results demonstrate the practical value of domain specialized
   llms in food and nutrition research . they enable automated dietary
   assessment , large scale nutritional monitoring , and fair data integration
   , while opening new pathways toward sustainable and personalized nutrition
DE fair data; foodyllm; healthy diet; large language model; nutrient estimation

---

UT 502
AR Sasanski D, 2025, PROC IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIGDATA, P6814, DOI
   10.1109/BigData66926.2025.11401632
TI Building a Macedonian Recipe Dataset: Collection, Parsing, and Comparative
   Analysis
AU Sasanski D; Peshevski D; Stojanov R; Trajanov D
TC 0
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIGDATA
PY 2025
AB computational gastronomy increasingly relies on diverse , high quality
   recipe datasets to capture regional culinary traditions . although there are
   large scale collections for major languages , macedonian recipes remain
   under represented in digital research . in this work , we present the first
   systematic effort to construct a macedonian recipe dataset through web
   scraping and structured parsing . we address challenges in processing
   heterogeneous ingredient descriptions , including unit , quantity , and
   descriptor normalization . an exploratory analy sis of ingredient frequency
   and co occurrence patterns , using measures such as pointwise mutual
   information and lift score , highlights distinctive ingredient combinations
   that characterize macedonian cuisine . the resulting dataset contributes a
   new resource for studying food culture in underrepresented languages and
   offers insights into the unique patterns of macedonian culinary tradition
DE computational gastronomy; cross-cultural food analysis; ingredient co-
   occurrence; macedonian cuisine; recipe dataset construction
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; co-occurrence; comparative analyzes;
   computational gastronomy; cross-cultural food analyze; food analysis; high
   quality; ingredient co-occurrence; large-scales; macedonian cuisine; recipe
   dataset construction; syntactics

---

UT 503
AR Ubanos AN, 2025, INT ARTIF INTELL DATA PROCESS SYMP IDAP, DOI
   10.1109/IDAP68205.2025.11222261
TI AI-Enhanced Food Recommender System Using DeepFM as Predictive Model
AU Ubanos AN; Calanda F
TC 0
SO INT ARTIF INTELL DATA PROCESS SYMP IDAP
PY 2025
AB this paper presents an ai driven framework for predicting individual taste
   preferences spicy , sweet , sour , or salty based on structured lifestyle ,
   demographic , and cultural features . we employ the deepfm architecture ,
   which unifies factorization machines and deep neural networks to model both
   low and high order feature interactions in sparse data . comparative
   experiments demonstrate that deepfm substantially outperforms a baseline
   factorization machine , achieving an f1 score of 0.885 versus 0.432 and
   lowering rmse from 1.089 to 0.534. furthermore , a hybrid variant ( xgdeepfm
   ) attains a peak accuracy of 91.9 % while maintaining robust generalization
   , as evidenced by high matthews correlation coefficient ( mcc ) values and
   minimal prediction error . these findings really showcase how effective the
   deepfm approach is for predicting people s tastes based on structured data .
   it opens up exciting possibilities for creating personalized food
   recommendations and designing adaptive menus that cater to individual
   preferences
DE compression; deepfm; factorization machines; predictive modeling; sparse
   features; wide and deep; xgdeepfm
ID deep neural networks; human computer interaction; network architecture;
   prediction models; recommender systems; compression; deepfm; factorization
   machines; low order; low-high; neural networks; predictive models; sparse
   features; wide and deep; xgdeepfm; factorization; forecasting

---

UT 504
AR Clark SD, 2021, NUTR, V13, DOI 10.3390/nu13051481
TI Dietary patterns derived from UK supermarket transaction data with nutrient
   and socioeconomic profiles
AU Clark SD; Shute B; Jenneson V; Rains T; Birkin M; Morris MA
TC 27
SO NUTR
PY 2021
AB poor diet is a leading because of death in the united kingdom ( uk ) and
   around the world . methods to collect quality dietary information at scale
   for population research are time consuming , expensive and biased . novel
   data sources offer potential to overcome these challenges and better
   understand population dietary patterns . in this research we will use 12
   months of supermarket sales transaction data , from 2016 , for primary
   shoppers residing in the yorkshire and humber region of the uk ( n = 299,260
   ) , to identify dietary patterns and profile these according to their
   nutrient composition and the sociodemographic characteristics of the
   consumer purchasing with these patterns . results identified seven dietary
   purchase patterns that we named : fruity . meat alternatives . carni vores .
   hydrators . afternoon tea . beer and wine lovers . and sweet tooth . on
   average the daily energy intake of loyalty card holders who may buy as an
   individual or for a household is less than the adult reference intake , but
   this varies according to dietary purchase pattern . in general loyalty card
   holders meet the recommended salt intake , do not purchase enough
   carbohydrates , and purchase too much fat and protein , but not enough fiber
   . the dietary purchase pattern containing the highest amount of fiber ( as
   an indicator of healthiness ) is bought by the least deprived customers and
   the pattern with lowest fiber by the most deprived . in conclusion ,
   supermarket sales data offer significant potential for understanding
   population dietary patterns . 2021 by the authors . li censee mdpi , basel ,
   switzerland .
DE big data; dietary assessment; dietary patterns; nutrients; nutrition
   analytics; socioeconomic; transaction data
ID adolescent; adult; aged; consumer behavior; diet; female; humans; male;
   middle aged; nutritive value; socioeconomic factors; supermarkets; united
   kingdom; young adult; adolescent; adult; aged; consumer attitude; diet;
   female; human; male; middle aged; nutritional value; procedures; socio-
   economics; united kingdom; young adult

---

UT 505
AR Al-Thani MJ, 2025, FOOD HUMANIT, V5, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2025.100736
TI Smart food supply chain management: A bibliometric and systematic review
AU Al-Thani MJ; Hadid M; Padmanabhan R; Kerbache L; Elomri A
TC 8
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2025
AB the food supply chain ( fsc ) faces increasing pressure due to rising global
   demand , inefficiencies , food safety concerns , and sustainability
   challenges . the internet of things ( iot ) offers significant potential for
   transforming supply chain management across key stages , production ,
   processing , distribution , and retail . by integrating iot technologies in
   supply chains , organizations can enable real time monitoring , automation ,
   and predictive analytics through interconnected devices such as sensors ,
   radio frequency identification ( rfid ) tags , smart packaging , and
   automated systems . this study conducts a systematic review and bibliometric
   analysis of iot enabled fscs , following prisma guidelines , to examine how
   iot enhances food security , optimizes efficiency , and promotes
   sustainability while identifying key research trends , technological
   advancements , challenges , and opportunities . a search in scientific
   databases for the period 20182024 yielded 33 articles , which were analyzed
   to classify iot applications , explore integration with blockchain and
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) , and assess benefits and barriers . content
   analysis of the reviewed literature identified key thematic clusters . these
   include iot integration in supply chain management , advanced technologies
   for efficiency , traceability and security , food quality and safety ,
   logistics optimization , and the role of industry 4.0 in smart farming .
   findings reveal that iot improves traceability , cold chain management ,
   quality control , and predictive analytics . within farm environments ,
   precision agriculture employs iot sensors to monitor soil , crop health ,
   and weather conditions , optimizing resource allocation . in distribution ,
   iot enabled packaging and cold chain systems ensure food freshness by
   tracking temperature and humidity . at the retail level , smart shelves with
   weight sensors and tracking technology automate restocking , while iot
   refrigerators monitor temperature and expiration dates , reducing waste .
   despite these benefits , high costs , data privacy concerns , and
   interoperability issues hinder adoption . the bibliometric analysis
   highlights a growing focus on iot blockchain integration and gaps in cost
   effective , user friendly solutions . strategies include open source
   platforms , standardization , and improved interfaces . this study offers
   insights into advancing iot adoption in fsc management
DE artificial intelligence; food security; internet of things; smart food
   supply chain management; systematic review

---

UT 506
AR Rehman F, 2017, KSII TRANS INTERNET SYST, V11, P2910, DOI
   10.3837/tiis.2017.06.006
TI Diet-right: A smart food recommendation system
AU Rehman F; Khalid O; Haq NU; Khan AUR; Bilal K; Madani SA
TC 75
SO KSII TRANS INTERNET SYST
PY 2017
AB inadequate and inappropriate intake of food is known to cause various health
   issues and diseases . due to lack of concise information about healthy diet
   , people have to rely on medicines instead of taking preventive measures in
   food intake . due to diversity in food components and large number of
   dietary sources , it is challenging to perform real time selection of diet
   patterns that must fulfill one s nutrition needs . particularly , selection
   of proper diet is critical for patients suffering from various diseases . in
   this article , we highlight the issue of selection of proper diet that must
   fulfill patients nutrition requirements . to address this issue , we present
   a cloud based food recommendation system , called diet right , for dietary
   recommendations based on users pathological reports . the model uses ant
   colony algorithm to generate optimal food list and recommends suitable foods
   according to the values of pathological reports . diet right can play a
   vital role in controlling various diseases . the experimental results show
   that compared to single node execution , the convergence time of parallel
   execution on cloud is approximately 12 times lower . moreover , adequate
   accuracy is attainable by increasing the number of ants . 2017 ksii .
DE aco; cloud computing; ehealth; food; pathological reports; recommender
   system
ID ant colony optimization; cloud computing; distributed computer systems; food
   products; recommender systems; ant colony algorithms; convergence time;
   dietary sources; ehealth; food components; parallel executions; pathological
   reports; preventive measures; nutrition

---

UT 507
AR Sevilla-Villanueva B, 2018, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V11160 LNAI, P296, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-00374-6_28
TI Intelligent management of measurement units equivalences in food databases
AU Sevilla-Villanueva B; Gibert K; Sànchez-Marrè M
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2018
AB it is currently well known that diet plays an important role in the
   promotion of healthy lifestyle and the prevention of chronic diseases . the
   diet4you project is conceived to support the creation of an intelligent
   decision support system that provides personalized menus fitting a
   nutritional plan and taking into account the characteristics , needs and
   preferences of the person . the system involves a background food database ,
   recording a collection of foods and prepared dishes with their standard
   portions as well as their nutritional decomposition in different food
   families . this db is used to search the best combination of dishes
   approaching the total intake of different nutrients specified in the
   prescribed nutritional plan . the available background databases , specify
   the quantities of standard portions of several foods based on different
   measurement units which are not standardized , and it happens that the
   weight specified by one cup of melon is different from that of one cup of
   berries , among others . this arises the need of applying variable
   conversion factors to the dish description , before assessing whereas the
   total quantities of a certain menu fit well to the prescription . in this
   paper , a knowledge based approach is presented to the automatically
   management . an annotated reference food ontology is built on the basis of
   additional documentation . however the granularity of the information
   provided is heterogeneous and non exhaustive . the ontology based missing
   values imputation is presented to overcome this limitations
DE database; missing imputation; ontology
ID artificial intelligence; database systems; decision support systems;
   knowledge based systems; ontology; chronic disease; conversion factor;
   healthy lifestyles; intelligent decision support systems; intelligent
   management; knowledge based approach; missing imputation; missing values
   imputations; nutrition

---

UT 508
AR Li Z/6, 2016, PROC - INT CONF SCI CONTROL ENG ICISCE, P91, DOI
   10.1109/ICISCE.2016.30
TI A Scalable Recipe Recommendation System for Mobile Application
AU Li Z/6; Hu J/1; Shen J/2; Xu Y/3
TC 14
SO PROC - INT CONF SCI CONTROL ENG ICISCE
PY 2016
AB there are more and more users to use mobile application to get the cooking
   recipe information , but to recommend right recipe for each user is
   challenging for the complex food and diet information . in this paper , a
   hybrid recommendation system is proposed for personalized recipe mobile
   application . we describe a scalable recommendation system to process the
   massive data from mobile applications based on the spark clusters , and
   design a hybrid recommendation algorithm , which combines content based
   filtering and collaborative filtering to improve the recipe recommended
   effectiveness . our experiments reveal that the recommendation system has
   scalable computational capability
DE hybrid recommendation; mobile application; recipe recommendation system
ID collaborative filtering; information science; mobile computing; mobile
   telecommunication systems; thermal processing ( foods ); computational
   capability; content-based filtering; cooking recipe; hybrid recommendation;
   massive data; mobile applications; recommender systems

---

UT 509
AR kumar DA, 2025, LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG,
   V597 LNICST, P61, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-77075-3_6
TI An Efficient Approach for Food Demand Forecasting Using an Ensemble
   Technique and Statistical Analysis
AU kumar DA; Rao BT; Rangaswamy B; Meghana K
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG
PY 2025
AB by utilizing machine learning , the current research offers a fresh approach
   to food demand forecasting in restaurants . it focuses on store specific
   models that take into account a variety of variables , including location ,
   weather , and events . conventional methods frequently ignore store specific
   subtleties in favor of relying exclusively on point of sale ( pos ) data .
   we provide a food demand forecasting model that utilizes machine learning
   methods , specifically xgboost and catboost , to incorporate various data
   sources . the study goes into how the model was created , how real shop data
   was used to validate it , and how it was used to assess variables that
   affect consumer happiness , especially in the context of the fast food trend
   . the study explores the variables influencing preferences for fast food
   outlets and offers insights into consumer satisfaction and how it affects
   the fast food restaurant industry as a whole . the benefits of the presented
   hypothesis , along with the algorithms and libraries used ( pandas , numpy ,
   scikit learn , and catboost ) are described in depth . the study also
   emphasizes the significance of data visualization , ensemble techniques ,
   hyperparameter adjustment , and other gradient boosting libraries like
   xgboost and catboost . libraries for time series analysis are also thought
   to be useful for capturing data s temporal patterns . this all encompassing
   method helps to create a strong and effective framework for food demand
   forecasting , which is crucial for restaurant management and optimization
DE catboost; customer satisfaction; data visualization; ensemble technique;
   food demand forecasting; gradient boosting; hyper-parameter tuning; machine
   learning; restaurant management and optimization; xgboost
ID adaptive boosting; machine learning; catboost; customers satisfaction;
   demand forecasting; ensemble techniques; food demand; food demand
   forecasting; gradient boosting; hyper-parameter; hyper-parameter tuning;
   machine learning; optimizations; restaurant management and optimization;
   xgboost; customer satisfaction

---

UT 510
AR Abbas F, 2021, PROC INT FLA ARTIF INTELL RES SOC CONF FLAIRS, V34, DOI
   10.32473/flairs.v34i1.128517
TI Critique Generation to Increase Diversity in Conversational Recipe
   Recommender System
AU Abbas F; Najjar N; Wilson D
TC 3
SO PROC INT FLA ARTIF INTELL RES SOC CONF FLAIRS
PY 2021
AB conversational recommender systems help to guide users in exploring the
   search space in order to discover items of interest . during the exploration
   process , the user provides feedback on recommended items to refine
   subsequent recommendations . critiquing as a way of feedback has proven
   effective for conversational interactions . in addition , diversifying the
   recommended items during exploration can help to increase user understanding
   of the search space , which critiquing alone will not achieve . both aspects
   are important elements for recommender applications in the food domain .
   diversity in diet has been shown to predict nutritional health , and
   conversational exploration can help to introduce new food items . in this
   paper , we introduce a novel approach that brings together critique and
   diversity to support conversational recommendation in the recipe domain .
   initial evaluation in comparison to a baseline similarity based recommender
   shows that the proposed approach increases diversity during the exploration
   process . 2020 , association for the advancement of artificial intelligence
   ( www . aaai . org )
ID artificial intelligence; nutrition; conversational interaction;
   conversational recommendations; conversational recommender systems;
   exploration process; search spaces; recommender systems

---

UT 511
AR Casales-Garcia V, 2025, ARTIF INTELL APPL, V410, P153, DOI
   10.3233/FAIA250588
TI Exploring Odor-Color Associations in Gastronomy: A Multisensory Analysis of
   Ingredient Scents and Dish Colors
AU Casales-Garcia V; Jay A; Sanz I; Museros L
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL
PY 2025
AB understanding the relationship between odor and color perception is central
   to multisensory food experiences . this study explores whether the colors
   associated with individual ingredients based on their olfactory descriptors
   align with the actual colors observed in the final prepared dishes . using a
   dataset of over 18,000 recipes from diverse gastronomic traditions each
   annotated with ingredient lists , dish images , and user comments we mapped
   ingredient smells to predicted colors using the monex 40 dataset , a
   standardized framework for odor color associations . we then extracted
   predominant colors from recipe images and quantified visual olfactory
   coherence using a chromatic consistency index based on rgb color similarity
   . our findings reveal a generally high degree of alignment between expected
   and observed colors , suggesting that odor based color expectations are
   often reflected in culinary presentation . the results highlight the
   potential of integrating multisensory principles into food design and open
   new avenues to improve consumer perception through visual olfactory
   congruency
DE computational gastronomy; food presentation; multisensory perception; odor-
   color associations
ID electronic nose; food ingredients; information use; odors; rgb color model;
   color association; color perception; computational gastronomy; consistency
   index; descriptors; food presentation; multisensory; multisensory
   perceptions; odor-color association; rgb colors; color vision

---

UT 512
AR Desai PM, 2025, CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC, DOI 10.1145/3706599.3719813
TI Something Similar: Exploring the Usefulness of an On-the-Spot Meal
   Recommendation System for Health Goal Attainment
AU Desai PM; Raj A; Albers D; Kashyap A; Mamykina L
TC 1
SO CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC
PY 2025
AB recommendation systems for nutrition management have become increasingly
   popular . current solutions focus on optimizing for users taste preferences
   , often neglecting practical factors including personal priorities ,
   existing plans , and situational constraints . we propose similarity based
   meal recommendation a novel approach that considers users existing meal
   plans and recommends similar meals that also align with their nutrition
   goals . this approach is designed to support meal decisions in on the spot ,
   particularly when individuals are in constrained settings with limited
   options for adjustment ( e . g . a cafeteria ) . we conducted a feasibility
   study with 15 participants to evaluate the utility of similarity based
   recommendations in constrained settings and refine the system design .
   findings show ( 1 ) a novel approach for similarity based meal
   recommendations , ( 2 ) insights into the dimensions of similarity
   influencing actionability across diverse , and ( 3 ) opportunities to
   enhance user control over the system s design . the study contributes to the
   advancement of human centered ai technologies in nutrition
DE human-centered ai; mixed-methods; nutrition management; recsys; user studies
ID ambient intelligence; nutrition; current; feasibility studies; goal-
   attainment; human-centered ai; mixed method; nutrition management; on the
   spots; recsys; situational constraints; user study; user-centered design

---

UT 513
AR Kumar N, 2024, INNOV SYST SOFTW ENG, V20, P301, DOI
   10.1007/s11334-024-00560-7
TI Performance evaluation of blockchain food supply chain management system:
   JkBFMs
AU Kumar N; Banerjee C; Bala M
TC 3
SO INNOV SYST SOFTW ENG
PY 2024
AB in the era of industry 4.0 , where advanced technologies are transforming
   various industries , the digital food supply chain management system ( fscm
   ) has emerged as a crucial component in today s world . as food supply
   chains become increasingly complex and globalized , ensuring efficiency in
   the fscm has become an urgent necessity . recognizing this need , our
   previous paper presented a groundbreaking solution : the blockchain
   integrated supply chain management system for the government of jammu
   kashmir food civil supplies and consumer affairs department ( jkbfms ) . the
   proposed system leverages the power of blockchain technology , specifically
   integrating the public ethereum blockchain , ipfs ( interplanetary file
   system ) , smart contracts , and data analytics . by harnessing these
   cutting edge technologies , the system aims to address critical challenges
   faced by stakeholders in the food supply chain , including transparency ,
   trust , data privacy , and scalability . however , implementing such a
   transformative system requires a comprehensive evaluation of its performance
   to ensure its effectiveness and identify areas for improvement . therefore ,
   this paper focuses on proposing frameworks to measure the performance of the
   jkbfms . to achieve enhanced results , performance metrics specific to
   blockchain networks such as , throughput , latency , and round trip time (
   rtt ) , have been optimized and integrated into the evaluation process
DE blockchain technology ( bct ); food supply chain management ( fscm );
   interplanetary file system ( ipfs ); public distribution system ( pds );
   smart contract ( sc )
ID blockchain; data analytics; data privacy; food supply; supply chain
   management; blockchain; blockchain technology; distribution systems;
   filesystem; food supply chain; food supply chain management; interplanetary
   file system; public distribution system; smart contract; supply chain
   management system; smart contract

---

UT 514
AR Lawo D, 2021, CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC, DOI 10.1145/3411764.3445264
TI Buying the right' thing: Designing food recommender systems with critical
   consumers
AU Lawo D; Neifer T; Esau M; Stevens G
TC 22
SO CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC
PY 2021
AB critical consumerism is complex as ethical values are difcult to negotiate ,
   appropriate products are hard to fnd , and product in formation is
   overwhelming . although recommender systems ofer solutions to reduce such
   complexity , current designs are not appro priate for niche practices and
   use non personalized intransparent ethics . to support critical consumption
   , we conducted a design case study on a personalized food recommender system
   . therefore , we frst conducted an empirical pre study with 24 consumers to
   understand value negotiations and current practices , co designed the
   recommender system , and fnally evaluated it in a real world trial with ten
   consumers . our fndings show how recommender systems can support the
   negotiation of ethical values within the context of consumption practices ,
   reduce the complexity of fnding products and stores , and strengthen
   consumers . in addition to pro viding implications for the design to support
   critical consumption practices , we critically refect on the scope of such
   recommender systems and its appropriation
DE co-design; consumer informatics; critical consumerism; ethics; food;
   recommender systems
ID ethical technology; current; co-designs; consumer informatic; critical
   consumerism; current practices; design case-studies; ethical values;
   informatics; real-world; recommender systems

---

UT 515
AR Tessa M, 2023, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P395, DOI 10.1145/3623809.3623938
TI Enhancing Explanaibility in AI: Food Recommender System Use Case
AU Tessa M; Abchiche S; Ferstler YC; Tchappi I; Benatchba K; Najjar A
TC 6
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2023
AB as automated decision making systems proliferate , accountability becomes
   crucial . developers must ensure adherence to regulations and fairness .
   explainable ai offers a remedy by crafting algorithms that provide precise
   outcomes and understandable explanations . this paper focuses on food
   recommender system interpretability for better health . integrating
   explainable ai empowers users to make informed dietary decisions . the
   proposed framework generates natural language explanations for
   recommendations using the prompting technique , demonstrating superior
   performance and broad applicability across domains
DE explainable ai; nutrition virtual coach; prompt engineering; recommender
   systems
ID decision making; nutrition; automated decision making systems; explainable
   ai; interpretability; natural language explanations; nutrition virtual
   coach; performance; prompt engineering; system use; recommender systems

---

UT 516
AR Bianchini D, 2017, COMPUT STAND INTERFACES, V54, P64, DOI
   10.1016/j.csi.2016.10.010
TI PREFer: A prescription-based food recommender system
AU Bianchini D; De Antonellis V; De Franceschi N; Melchiori M
TC 83
SO COMPUT STAND INTERFACES
PY 2017
AB in the literature , several researches on food recommendation and automatic
   menu generation have been proposed , taking into account different aspects ,
   such as personal and cultural preferences , health and religion constraints
   , menu composition and recipe co occurrence . however , recommending recipes
   and menus , which not only meet the user s preferences , but are also
   compliant with best food habits , is still an open issue . this paper
   presents the prefer food recommender system , apt to provide users with
   personalized and healthy menus , taking into account both user s short /
   long term preferences and medical prescriptions . prescriptions classify the
   ideal user s nutrition behavior from the health point of view , with
   constraints imposed by the specific user s phenotype . in fact , major novel
   contribution of the proposed system is the use of prescription types
   associated with users profiles to improve users behavior in selecting food .
   the recommended menus are generated through three steps . first , according
   to user s request , recipes are selected by content based filtering , based
   on comparisons among features used to annotate both users profiles and
   recipes . second , candidate menus are generated using the selected recipes
   . third , menus are refined and ranked taking into account also
   prescriptions . the prefer system has been developed within a regional
   project , related to the main topics ' feeding the planet , energy for life
   ' of the 2015 world exposition ( expo2015 , milan , italy ) , where the
   university of brescia aimed at promoting healthy behavioral habits in
   nutrition
DE food prescriptions; food recommender system; menu generation; recipe
   recommendation; semantic annotation
ID nutrition; semantics; co-occurrence; content-based filtering; medical
   prescription; menu generation; recipe recommendation; regional projects;
   semantic annotations; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 517
AR Zhang L, 2024, IEEE INT CONF IMAGE PROCESS COMPUT APPL ICIPCA, P304, DOI
   10.1109/ICIPCA61593.2024.10709079
TI Spark Collaborative Filtering Based Food Recommendation System
AU Zhang L; Lin R; Chen G; Ran Y
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF IMAGE PROCESS COMPUT APPL ICIPCA
PY 2024
AB with the advent of the era of big data and artificial intelligence , the
   catering industry has experienced great changes , and a wealth of food
   information has appeared on the market , but the ability of users to collect
   , filter , organize and summarize information is limited , especially when
   dealing with a large amount of data , and it becomes extremely difficult for
   users to obtain usable information from it . the emergence of food
   recommendation systems not only solves this problem , but also improves the
   coverage of the information retrieved by the user and formulates the content
   of food recommendations . in this paper , the least squares method ( als )
   is used as a collaborative filtering algorithm to train the hidden semantic
   model , combined with the matrix decomposition recommendation algorithm , in
   order to solve the data sparsity problem existing in the recommendation
   system , and to find the best model through parameter optimization . in real
   time recommendation , this paper introduces reward factor and penalty factor
   as weights to optimize the recommendation of recently rated dishes for users
   , which effectively improves the personalization effect . combined with
   redis , flume , kafka and other big data technologies , this paper builds a
   powerful system that can handle large scale data , and realizes data
   visualization through echarts , providing a fully functional , efficient and
   stable food recommendation service
DE catering; collaborative filtering; food recommendation; recommender systems;
   spark
ID catering; catering industries; collaborative filtering algorithms; food
   recommendation; hidden semantics; large amounts of data; least-squares-
   methods; matrix decomposition; recommendation algorithms; semantic modeling;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 518
AR Gopinath S, 2024, INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT SCI INCCCS, DOI
   10.1109/INCCCS60947.2024.10593438
TI Glycemic Index Based Food Recommendation System Using Deep Learning
AU Gopinath S; Udith S; Jathin SNP; Prashanth VJ; Palaniswamy S
TC 5
SO INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT SCI INCCCS
PY 2024
AB diabetes has become a common occurrence in the world at this moment . though
   many food recommendation systems consider food based on nutrient contents
   like protein , carbohydrates etc often does not include gylcemic index ( gi
   ) as a factor . gi is a tool used for blood sugar management which is a
   rating system for foods that contains carbohydrates . it shows how each food
   affects one s blood sugar level when consumed . this research aims to
   recognize the category of food from the images uploaded and predict its
   nutrient values like gi , proteins , carbohydrates , and fats . it also
   recommends the necessary calories needed for a person based on their age ,
   sex , weight and physical conditions and disorders . furthermore , this
   research also recommends similar food options for diabetic patients that
   have lesser gi values . the food images were augmented using histogram
   equalization and noise reduction . this research uses a custom inception v3
   model for food image recognition and resulted in an accuracy of 75 %
DE calories; diabetes; food recognition; glycemic index; inceptionv3; pcos
ID blood; deep learning; image recognition; nitrogen oxides; noise abatement;
   nutrients; nutrition; proteins; recommender systems; blood sugar levels;
   blood sugars; calory; food image; food recognition; glycemic index;
   inceptionv3; nutrient contents; pcos; rating system; carbohydrates

---

UT 519
AR Panwar M, 2023, ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON, DOI
   10.1109/ASIANCON58793.2023.10270048
TI Fuzzy Inference System Based Intelligent Food Recommender System
AU Panwar M; Sharma A/2; Mahela OP; Khan B
TC 5
SO ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON
PY 2023
AB the personalized suggestions using the intelligent methods are becoming
   promising ways to change eating habits to ward more desirable diets . this
   has necessitated the requirements of intelligent food recommender system (
   frs ) . this paper has designed a frs using the fuzzy inference system ( fis
   ) to suggest the food preference ( fp ) . this is achieved using the
   different system blocks such as rule base , database , decision making unit
   , fuzzification interface unit ( fiu ) , and defuzzification interface unit
   ( diu ) . the fp is decided by processing the input variables such as age ,
   income and calorific values . this is achieved with an accuracy of higher
   than 95 % . efficacy of proposed frs is established by comparing the
   performance with the rule based frs reported in literature . study is
   performed using the coding environment of matlab
DE defuzzification; food preference; food recommender system; fuzzification;
   fuzzy inference system; fuzzy rules
ID decision making; fuzzy inference; fuzzy rules; decision making unit;
   defuzzifications; eating habits; food preference; food recommende system;
   fuzzifications; fuzzy inference systems; intelligent method; interface
   units; rule basis; recommender systems

---

UT 520
AR Gupta M, 2021, ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON, DOI
   10.1109/ASIANCON51346.2021.9545065
TI Mood Based Food Recommendation System
AU Gupta M; Mourila S; Kotte S; Bhuvana Chandra K
TC 8
SO ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON
PY 2021
AB the constantly expanding volume of online information is a strategic
   approach to managing the excessive amount of data . the importance of
   recommender systems can not be emphasized , considering their ubiquitous use
   in many online applications and their ability to alleviate many problems
   associated with over choice . all potential parts of enterprise are the
   rising usage of technology that demands usage of it . the hotel and
   restaurant industry nowadays are one of the most expanding businesses and
   has greatly contributed to the economy of the nation . existing restaurant
   recommendation does not consider user s current point of view or is not
   personalized . the proposed system is completely personalized for users ,
   this system recommends food and available restaurants based on user s
   current mood . the dataset from zomato is taken to locate the restaurants
   based on location of user . a website is designed where the user must enter
   their basic personal details for developing their personalized system , and
   then select their current mood out of the options provided . based on given
   inputs the application recommends user with food items and restaurant .
   multiple options are provided to the user along with restaurant rating to
   give better experience . total 9 restaurants are recommended to a customer
   out of which top 3 are the best recommendations and 6 are other
   recommendations . this model is developed using pycharm , the restaurants
   are grouped by location using knn algorithm . flask is used to create
   website which is user friendly . this application can be used when a
   customer does not understand what to eat when they are in the moods
DE content and collaborative based methods; flask; k-means algorithm; pycharm;
   recommendation
ID k-means clustering; online systems; recommender systems; websites; current;
   content and collaborative based method; enterprise is; expanding business;
   k-mean algorithms; online applications; online information; pycharm;
   recommendation; strategic approaches; bottles

---

UT 521
AR Abikoye CO, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1584 LNNS, P945, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-01536-5_140
TI A Diabetes Management-Based Personalized Food Recommender System
AU Abikoye CO; Imoize AL; Mejdoub Y; Kossiwa AM; Awotunde JB
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the increasing availability of online information has introduced challenges
   like information overload , particularly in the context of personalized
   dietary management for individuals with diabetes . this study introduces a
   personalized food recommendation system designed to enhance diabetes
   management . the system employs a hybrid filtering method , combining
   content based and collaborative filtering techniques , with linear
   regression serving as the core machine learning algorithm to improve
   recommendation accuracy . evaluation results reveal that the system achieved
   a high accuracy rate of 98.34 % , effectively supporting diabetic patients
   in making well informed dietary decisions . this advancement contributes to
   better glycemic control and improved adherence to dietary recommendations ,
   underscoring the system s potential to provide personalized nutrition advice
   for managing diabetes . the findings of this work offer significant
   contributions to health informatics , paving the way for future e health
   innovations in personalized nutrition
DE diabetes management; food recommender system; health informatics; hybrid
   filtering; machine learning; personalized nutrition
ID information management; learning algorithms; machine learning; medical
   informatics; nutrition; recommender systems; diabetes management; dietary
   management; food recommender system; health informatics; hybrid filtering;
   hybrid filtering methods; information overloads; machine learning; online
   information; personalized nutrition; learning systems

---

UT 522
AR Thornton K, 2022, CEUR WORK PROC, V3249
TI Matching Food Items with FoodOn Identifiers in a Knowledge Base
AU Thornton K; Seals-Nutt K; Matsuzaki M
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2022
AB we maintain a knowledge base of food items and food composition data , wiki
   fcd . we source food composition data from published sources such as food
   composition tables ( fcts ) and scientific papers . as we ingest data sets ,
   we need to match food items to corresponding identifiers from the food
   ontology ( food on ) . we describe the process of matching food items to
   food on identifiers in a knowledge base of food composition data . we
   describe a software tool called lex mapr that can be used to bulk match food
   items to food on identifiers . we have found that the lex mapr tool reduces
   the time needed to match food items to their corresponding food on
   identifiers
DE food composition; food on; knowledge base; nutri-informatics
ID composition data; composition tables; dataset; food compositions; food on;
   informatics; knowledge base; matchings; nutri-informatic; scientific papers;
   knowledge based systems

---

UT 523
AR Schafer H, 2015, CEUR WORK PROC, V1533, P21
TI Personalized food recommendation
AU Schafer H; Groh G; Schlichter J; Kolossa S; Daniel H; Hecktor R; Greupner T
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2015
AB in this paper a food recommender system giving general and personalized
   advice is described . the system is based on semi formal knowledge of
   personal nutrition gained in a previous project ( food4me ) . this project
   implements a manual expert knowledge based approach using a decision tree
   for recommending optimal adaptions to the individual nutrition behavior .
   the system was evaluated in a proof of principle study whose results lead to
   the current two research projects . the first project aims at an automated
   recommender system based on formalized expert knowledge building on the
   insights from food4me . this recommendation system is then extended by
   including it into an application which provides continuous feedback on the
   participant s nutritional behavior . also individual preferences are
   integrated using approaches from critique based and persuasive recommender
   systems . the second system uses an adapted collaborative filtering approach
   to recommend food based on healthiness and taste ratings of other users
   augmented by a rating based recommender system for sports . this recommender
   system is further extended by social support groups and game interaction in
   view of social motivation . in the future both projects might be used in
   combination to provide optimal health support .
DE collaborative filtering; food recommendation; personalized recommendation;
   social recommender systems
ID collaborative filtering; decision making; decision trees; knowledge based
   systems; nutrition; expert knowledge; formal knowledge; individual
   preference; optimal health; personalized recommendation; proof of
   principles; social motivations; social recommender systems; recommender
   systems

---

UT 524
AR Al-Chalabi HH, 2023, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1764 CCIS, P139, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-35442-7_8
TI Food Recommendation System Based on Data Clustering Techniques and User
   Nutrition Records
AU Al-Chalabi HH; Jasim MN
TC 6
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2023
AB food plays a vital role in the daily life . everybody needs a balanced diet
   to maintain a healthy body . nowadays , the list of foods is continue
   growing . some are natural , others are artificial , and they are
   reengineered and emerging every day , so choosing healthy food is becoming a
   more complex task . the food recommendation system ( frs ) is a response to
   this need . it is used to give a recommended list of appropriate meal
   content that suits every client , and a website is built to solve part of
   this problem . rs helps users to find the right food groups . this paper
   gives an overview of rs types and defines frs . in order to obtain a
   reasonable impression of the power and challenges of the rs field , a
   powerful model has been chosen , called the gaussian mixture model gmm . the
   model clusters the dataset into 20 clusters . some of them are more coherent
   and highly similar , while others have less similarity value . the use of
   euclidean distance and manhattan distance produced a similar recommended
   list according to user preferences depending on food nutrition . also ,
   using cosine similarity and correlation will obtain a slight difference
   between its results and the first two algorithms . it is clear that the
   euclidean distance outperforms the other methods . the current research
   presents three extra parameters certainty , exceeded , and outlier detection
   , not dealt by the previous related works which are representing data
   confidence , overweight , outliers consequently
DE clustering; content-based filtering euclidean distance; correlation; cosine
   similarity; food recommendation system; frs; gaussian mixture model; gmm;
   k-means; manhattan distance; nutrition; recommender systems
ID cluster analysis; gaussian distribution; k-means clustering; nutrition;
   statistics; clusterings; content-based filtering; content-based filtering;
   correlation; cosine similarity; euclidean distance; food recommendation
   system; gaussian mixture model; gmm; k-means; manhattan distance;
   recommender systems

---

UT 525
AR Min W, 2022, PATTERNS, V3, DOI 10.1016/j.patter.2022.100484
TI Applications of knowledge graphs for food science and industry
AU Min W; Liu C/2; Xu L/1; Jiang S
TC 91
SO PATTERNS
PY 2022
AB the deployment of various networks ( e . g . , internet of things [ iot ]
   and mobile networks ) , databases ( e . g . , nutrition tables and food
   compositional databases ) , and social media ( e . g . , instagram and
   twitter ) generates huge amounts of food data , which present researchers
   with an unprecedented opportunity to study various problems and applications
   in food science and industry via data driven computational methods . however
   , these multi source heterogeneous food data appear as information silos ,
   leading to difficulty in fully exploiting these food data . the knowledge
   graph provides a unified and standardized conceptual terminology in a
   structured form , and thus can effectively organize these food data to
   benefit various applications . in this review , we provide a brief
   introduction to knowledge graphs and the evolution of food knowledge
   organization mainly from food ontology to food knowledge graphs . we then
   summarize seven representative applications of food knowledge graphs , such
   as new recipe development , diet disease correlation discovery , and
   personalized dietary recommendation . we also discuss future directions in
   this field , such as multimodal food knowledge graph construction and food
   knowledge graphs for human health
DE artificial intelligence; food analysis; food science and industry; knowledge
   graph; new recipe development; nutrition and health; ontology
ID graphic methods; internet of things; knowledge graph; knowledge management;
   nutrition; semantic web; social networking ( online ); data-driven; food
   analysis; food industries; food science; knowledge graphs; multi-sources;
   new recipe development; nutrition and health; ontologys; social media;
   ontology

---

UT 526
AR Wiwatkajornsak S, 2025, ENG APPL SCI RES, V52, P326, DOI
   10.14456/easr.2025.29
TI Enhancing sustainability and key success factors in digital food supply
   chain management through digital transformation: A fuzzy AHP approach
AU Wiwatkajornsak S; Phuaksaman C
TC 0
SO ENG APPL SCI RES
PY 2025
AB this study investigated the key success factors in digital food supply chain
   management for thailand s food retail industry through digital
   transformation , employing the fuzzy analytic hierarchy process ( fahp ) for
   the integrated digital food supply chain model . through an extensive
   literature review and expert consultations , the critical criteria were
   identified and ranked in the researched domains of digital strategy ,
   digital operations management , digital customer experiences , and digital
   organization and culture management . business alignment is the primary
   focus within digital strategy , followed by technology investments to enable
   this alignment and data driven decision making . supply chain visibility is
   considered the most crucial aspect of digital operations management , and
   data analytics along with inventory management are integral aspects that
   lead to operational efficiency . in the realm of digital customer
   experiences , aspects of customer centricity , convenience and accessibility
   , and order tracking and communication are the top drivers of satisfaction
   and loyalty . finally , leadership and vision are recognized as essential
   for digital organization and culture management , along with fostering
   digital skills , capabilities , agility , and adaptability . in addition ,
   this study provides a practical framework for improving thai food retail
   organizations through the alignment of engineering , organizational , and
   consumer expectations . 2025 , faculty of engineering , khon kaen university
DE digital customer experiences; digital operations management; digital
   organization and culture management; digital strategy; food supply chain
   management; fuzzy ahp

---

UT 527
AR Wu J, 2026, SEMANTIC WEB, V17, DOI 10.1177/22104968261431445
TI NutriLink: An Ontology for Linking Digital Receipts to Food
   Nutrition Information and Dietary Recommendations
AU Wu J; Garcia K; Mayer S; Albert J
TC 0
SO SEMANTIC WEB
PY 2026
AB unhealthy diets are a major modifiable risk factor for noncommunicable
   diseases and the leading because of morbidity and mortality world wide .
   nutrition assessment is crucial for understanding and preventing unhealthy
   diets , but often relies on self reporting , which is burdensome , error
   prone , and ineffective for long term tracking . digital receipts from
   loyalty cards , enriched with product nutrition information , offer a
   promising alternative . current regulations support user consented access to
   such receipts and mandates food nutrition information provision , creating a
   viable legislative foundation for sharing and using digital receipts .
   shared ontologies enable consistent management and exchange of digital
   receipts and food product information across sources and applications . yet
   , no current ontology describes enriched digital receipts at product and
   basket levels with detailed nutrition metrics . we present nutrilink , an
   ontology connecting digital receipts to product nutrition information and
   structured dietary recommendations . nutrilink supports evaluating
   nutritional quality of purchases within and across baskets and delivering
   structured dietary recommendations . it integrates with the established
   ontologies , including foodon , goodrelations , and agrovoc , as well as
   with schema . org concepts . we demonstrate nutrilink s value through
   deployment in a fully automated dietary counseling system with 76 users .
   nutrilink is freely and openly available for research and practice
DE digital receipts; food ontology; food semantics; semantic technologies

---

UT 528
AR Bohn T, 2024, INT J VITAM NUTR RES, V94, P221, DOI 10.1024/0300-9831/a000795
TI LIFANA - Toward developing a meal recommender system as a dietary support
   app for the elderly Evaluation in field trials, pitfalls and lessons
   learned, and the path forward
AU Bohn T; Ferrini K; Stahl C
TC 5
SO INT J VITAM NUTR RES
PY 2024
AB background : though a variety of ehealth / mhealth dietary solutions exist ,
   many are ill adapted to the target population and local eating habits . a
   specific need exists for the elderly , a growing vulnerable population with
   limited digital literacy . the lifana project aimed at developing a mobile
   nutrition solution , i . e . a dietary meal recommender app for personalized
   meal planning useful for the elderly . methods : in addition to considering
   age , gender , and physical activity , the app assured sufficient intake of
   calories and proteins . the solution was optimized to consider local eating
   culture in portugal ( pt ) /the netherlands ( nl ) where it was tested .
   recipes ( > 300 ) were included and aligned with national food composition
   dietary databases ( fcdbs ) to analyze their nutritional values for meal
   planning . individual dietary preferences , food restrictions ( i . e . ,
   allergies ) , and budget considerations were included in the user profile .
   the development process involved user integration , including focus groups
   and usability evaluations , followed by longer field trials in portugal (
   n=53 participants , age 60 81 y , 14 months ) and the netherlands ( n=107 ,
   age 52 86 y , 3 months ) . endpoints regarding acceptance / usage frequency
   , anthropometric measures and ( in pt ) blood pressure and body fat were
   collected . results : 23/34 elderly finalized the trials in pt / nl . no
   significant changes in anthropometry or other assessed markers , including
   blood pressure , were observed . 9 % ( nl ) and 47 % ( pt ) of users
   reported that they would consider using the solution if it were on the
   market . conclusions : via an iterative adaptive process , a dietary app was
   developed and improved that demonstrated acceptance / user friendliness
   comparable to other tools available on the market and allowed despite the
   covid crisis for stable anthropometric markers and blood pressure . however
   , it was also observed that additional features , such as a link to an
   online shopping app , and closer personal follow up was associated with
   increased usability and acceptance of the solution and thus further
   personalization and nudges are warranted to increase employment of such
   dietary apps . 2024 hogrefe verlag gmbh and co . kg
DE ehealth; elderly; food expenses; iterative approach; local food culture;
   meal recommender; obesity; weight change
ID aged; aged 80 and over; covid-19; diet; energy intake; feeding behavior;
   female; humans; male; meals; middle aged; mobile applications; netherlands;
   portugal; sars-cov-2; telemedicine; age; aged; anthropometry; article; blood
   pressure; body fat; body weight change; caloric intake; diet restriction;
   dietary service; eating habit; female; field study; food composition; food
   processing; gender; human; major clinical study; male; nutrition;
   nutritional value; obesity; physical activity; protein intake; telehealth;
   coronavirus disease 2019; diet; feeding behavior; meal; middle aged; mobile
   application; netherlands; portugal; prevention and control; severe acute
   respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; telemedicine; very elderly

---

UT 529
AR Ahmadian S, 2022, INT J COMPUT INTELL SYST, V15, DOI
   10.1007/s44196-022-00168-4
TI Healthy Food Recommendation Using a Time-Aware Community Detection Approach
   and Reliability Measurement
AU Ahmadian S; Rostami M/1; Jalali SMJ; Oussalah M; Farrahi V
TC 18
SO INT J COMPUT INTELL SYST
PY 2022
AB food recommendation systems have been increasingly developed in online food
   services to make recommendations to users according to their previous diets
   . although unhealthy diets may cause challenging diseases such as diabetes ,
   cancer , and premature heart diseases , most of the developed food
   recommendation systems neglect considering health factors in their
   recommendation process . this emphasizes the importance of the reliability
   of the recommendation from the health content perspective . this paper
   proposes a new food recommendation system based on health aware reliability
   measurement . in particular , we develop a time aware community detection
   approach that groups users into disjoint sets and utilizes the identified
   communities as the nearest neighbors set in rating prediction . then , a
   novel reliability measurement is introduced by considering both the health
   and accuracy criteria of predictions to evaluate the reliability of
   predicted ratings . also , the unreliable predictions are recalculated by
   removing ineffective users from the nearest neighbors set . finally , the
   recalculated predictions are utilized to generate a list of foods as
   recommendations . different experiments on a crawled dataset demonstrate
   that the proposed method enhances the performance around 7.63 % , 6.97 % ,
   7.37 % , 15.09 % , and 16.17 % based on precision , recall , f1 , normalized
   discounted cumulative gain ( ndcg ) , and health metrics , respectively ,
   compared to the second best model
DE community detection; food recommendation system; health; reliability
   measurement; time
ID diseases; online systems; population dynamics; recommender systems;
   reliability; community detection; detection approach; food recommendation
   system; foodservices; health factors; healthy foods; heart disease; nearest-
   neighbour; reliability measurements; time; forecasting

---

UT 530
AR Bagler G, 2024, NPJ SYST BIO APPL, V10, DOI 10.1038/s41540-024-00399-5
TI Computational gastronomy: capturing culinary creativity by making food
   computable
AU Bagler G; Goel M
TC 19
SO NPJ SYST BIO APPL
PY 2024
AB cooking , a quintessential creative pursuit , holds profound significance
   for individuals , communities , and civilizations . food and cooking
   transcend mere sensory pleasure to influence nutrition and public health
   outcomes . inextricably linked to culinary and cultural heritage , food
   systems play a pivotal role in sustainability and the survival of life on
   our planet . computational gastronomy is a novel approach for investigating
   food through a data driven paradigm . it offers a systematic , rule based
   understanding of culinary arts by scrutinizing recipes for taste ,
   nutritional value , health implications , and environmental sustainability .
   probing the art of cooking through the lens of computation will open up a
   new realm of possibilities for culinary creativity . amidst the ongoing
   quest for imitating creativity through artificial intelligence , an
   interesting question would be , can a machine think like a chef ? capturing
   the experience and creativity of a chef in an ai algorithm presents an
   exciting opportunity for generating a galaxy of hitherto unseen recipes with
   desirable culinary , flavor , nutrition , health , and carbon footprint
   profiles
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; cooking; creativity; food; humans;
   algorithm; artificial intelligence; cooking; creativity; food; human;
   procedures

---

UT 531
AR Patel Z, 2025, INT J ENG TRENDS TECHNOL, V73, P267, DOI
   10.14445/22315381/IJETT-V73I5P123
TI Food Recommender System: Methods, Challenges, and Future Research Directions
AU Patel Z; Chokshi HJ
TC 0
SO INT J ENG TRENDS TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB in recent years , the food recommender system has drawn attention to the
   growing need for individualized meal recommendations , dietary planning ,
   and restaurant recommendations . the food recommender system has become
   increasingly important in a digital world , allowing users to select food
   dishes based on their preferences , dietary restrictions , and contextual
   factors . the demand for personalized food recommendations increased
   significantly with the increasing popularity of digital food delivery
   services and restaurant recommendation platforms . the recommendation system
   utilized many machine learning algorithms and various artificial
   intelligence techniques for mining and analyzing food attributes and user
   preferences from past ordered and contextual factors to recommend relevant
   recommendations . this paper aims to inspect different food recommender
   system types , such as content based filtering , collaborative filtering ,
   and hybrid filtering models . it also explores the key challenges inherent
   in the food recommender system , such as sparse data , the cold start issue
   , cultural problems , and nutritional quality . the paper also focuses on
   new developments and possible options for future study , including
   explainable ai , multi model data fusion , and the integration of health
   considerations into recommendation models . additionally , it identifies
   research gaps and presents the integration of explainable ai , multimodal
   learning , and health aware recommendations to further enhance the
   effectiveness of food recommendation systems . by addressing these
   challenges and exploring emerging technologies , this study aims to pave the
   way for more accurate , transparent , and user centric food recommendation
   models . it also provides a comprehensive understanding of food recommender
   systems and their role in enhancing user experience , health conscious
   eating , and personalized dining choices
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; hybrid filtering; memory-
   based filtering technique; model-based filtering technique; recommender
   system

---

UT 532
AR Martínez-Gorospe A, 2021, MEX INT CONF COMPUT SCI ENC, DOI
   10.1109/ENC53357.2021.9534806
TI Food recommender system based on weighted ingredients, body mass index and
   allergies; Using the Random Forest algorithm
AU Martínez-Gorospe A; Sánchez-Lucero E; Pedroza-Méndez BE; Quintero-Flores PM;
   Hernández-Hernandez JC; Sánchez-Navarro JC
TC 6
SO MEX INT CONF COMPUT SCI ENC
PY 2021
AB nowadays people live from day to day in a very hurried way and due to lack
   of time and knowledge they eat anything regardless of their health ,
   allergies or level of food consumption . knowing the standard of living of
   people and the food consumed is very important in this research . the
   objective is to design a system based on an intelligent algorithm that helps
   to recommend a list of ingredients that is adapted to each type of user
   based on the input data mentioned above . it is proposed to extract data on
   health and level of ingredient consumption by users through the food express
   application ( atriano ponce , saldana conde , bello garcia , martinez
   gorospe , sanchez lucero , 2019 ) , currently operating for the state of
   tlaxcala . all this to generate a set of data that is analyzed by the random
   forest machine learning algorithm . among the results , it is observed that
   the random forest algorithm has a precision of 97.7381 % when making the
   decision to recommend or not an ingredient according to the input data of
   each user , while the id3 algorithm has a precision of 94.0476 % and the
   random tree 87.5 % . so , the random forest algorithm is more accurate for
   decision making
DE body mass index; metabolic rate; random forest; recommender system
ID allergies; behavioral research; food supply; inputoutput programs; random
   forests; recommender systems; body mass; body mass index; food consumption;
   input datas; intelligent algorithms; mass index; metabolic rates; random
   forest algorithm; random forests; standard of living; decision trees

---

UT 533
AR Viktor L, 2024, SIST - IEEE INT CONF SMART SYST TECHNOL PROC, P560, DOI
   10.1109/SIST61555.2024.10629517
TI Candidate Generation for Meal Recommendation System
AU Viktor L; Yeremenko B; Terenchuk S
TC 1
SO SIST - IEEE INT CONF SMART SYST TECHNOL PROC
PY 2024
AB in this paper we overview a recommendation system architecture proposed by
   google and adjust it to for our meal recommendation system . then we conduct
   an overview on models used for building recommendation systems , as well as
   a candidate generation for the recommendation system . we then focus on wide
   and deep model as a main model for our candidate generation stage . this
   choice is driven by its ability to effectively capture both memorization and
   generalization aspects , providing a well rounded solution for the diverse
   nature of meal preferences . to test and validate our choice we then
   experiment involving training and testing wide and deep model . the model is
   evaluated both in isolation and in comparison , to widely used singular
   value decomposition algorithm for recommendation system . our experimental
   results show the advantages of wide and deep model for candidate generation
   stage of meal recommendation system
DE component; deep learning; machine learning; meal planning; recommendation
   system; wide and depp
ID contrastive learning; deep reinforcement learning; candidate generation;
   component; deep learning; generalization; google+; machine learning; meal
   planning; systems architecture; training and testing; wide and depp;
   adversarial machine learning

---

UT 534
AR Haris AAA, 2023, INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS - PROC,
   P847, DOI 10.1109/ICSSAS57918.2023.10331717
TI Exploring the Efforts of IAN-BGRU Justifications in Food Recommender System
   and its User Preferences
AU Haris AAA; Vinothkumar ES; Nithya N; Sharma N/3; Allirani P; Gayathri B
TC 14
SO INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS - PROC
PY 2023
AB there has been a general increase in the frequency with which people discuss
   diet , eating , and cooking . in actuality , there are far more dishes to
   choose from and ingredient combinations to try , and chefs ( and even ibm
   supercomputers ) create new dishes all the time . many people find it
   difficult to keep up with the ever evolving landscape of accessible foods
   and eating habits , which contributes to the rising prevalence of chronic
   diseases like obesity and diabetes . our recipe recommendation engine thus
   not only offers tasty but also nutritious options for the consumer . the
   proposed approach designed our software for mobile because the proposed
   system envisions it being utilized in many different rooms and environments
   , including kitchens . data processing , feature selection , and model
   training are the first three stages of the suggested procedure .
   normalization and encoding are two components of data processing . as a
   criterion for feature selection , they employ inconsistency . after features
   are selected , ian bgru is used to train the models . the proposed technique
   outperforms ian and bgru , two of the most used alternatives
DE conditional random field ( crf ); gated recurrent unit ( gru ); interactive
   attention network ( ian )
ID cooking; feature extraction; random processes; supercomputers; chronic
   disease; conditional random field; eating habits; feature models; features
   selection; food habit; gated recurrent unit; interactive attention network;
   random fields; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 535
AR Pritee A, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V730 LNNS, P599, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-3963-3_45
TI Food Recommendation System Based on Mood of the User
AU Pritee A; Ojha S; Sinha L; Bhardwaj S; Gupta N/1; Chawla T; Samadhiya A
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB living in the twenty first century we are provided with many services to
   tackle our hunger cravings , but the abundance of these services in this era
   has put humankind into a great dilemma of what to eat ? many of us just keep
   scrolling within the options and end by choosing nothing . in the food
   business , machine learning and artificial intelligence applications are
   increasingly extensive . this paper presents the recommendation system using
   hybrid filtering approach to recommend dishes and the recipes based on the
   mood . existing recommendation system does not recommend food based on the
   hormonal changes at a particular mood . the proposed system provides the
   personalization to the user . a website is designed to give suggestions to
   the users of food according to their mood which will save time . this model
   is connected to the django rest framework
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; hybrid model; rating;
   user-based filtering; web scraping
ID artificial intelligence; recommender systems; content-based filtering;
   existing recommendation systems; food business; hormonal changes; hybrid
   filtering; hybrid model; machine learning; personalizations; user-based
   filtering; web scrapings; collaborative filtering

---

UT 536
AR Shandilya R, 2022, INT J MANAG DATA INSIGHTS, V2, DOI
   10.1016/j.jjimei.2022.100090
TI MATURE-Food: Food Recommender System for MAndatory FeaTURE Choices A system
   for enabling Digital Health
AU Shandilya R; Sharma S/2; Wong J
TC 35
SO INT J MANAG DATA INSIGHTS
PY 2022
AB in order to deduce more appropriate and useful recommendation , it is
   imperative to amalgamate additional information such as the features of the
   user and the item along with the usual user item correlation based on rating
   . in this research , a content based recommender system , mature is further
   developed , which relies on the additional information related to the user
   item to recommend the items for a user who has current mandatory needs to
   accommodate as opposed to the past preferences . the mature driven
   recommendations mandatorily include and satisfy the user s mandatory
   requirements at a given time . this distinguishes it from the existing
   algorithms , where recommendations are primarily based on the past
   preferences and fail to satisfy current mandatory requirements of the user ,
   which are opposite to the user s past preferences . arguably , mature is
   first recommender system , which promisingly undertakes the given mandatory
   requirements while recommending the most appropriate item set with pertinent
   justification of the recommendation . this paper expands the applicability
   of mature and focuses on its application as a food recommender system with
   mandatory nutrient values , required to be consumed daily
DE dietary; digital health; feature-based; food; machine learning; mandatory;
   mature; nutrient; recommender systems

---

UT 537
AR Mouthami K, 2024, REAL-WORLD APPL QUANTUM COMP MACH INTELL, P1, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-3601-4.ch001
TI A Healthy Food Recommendation System Using KNN Model and Elasticsearch With
   Quantum Computing
AU Mouthami K; Harish VV; Karthikeyan S; Chinnusamy S; Kathiresan S
TC 1
SO REAL-WORLD APPL QUANTUM COMP MACH INTELL
PY 2024
AB with a personalized , intelligent , and interactive cooking journey
   available to users of all skill levels , this app has the potential to
   revolutionize the way we experience cooking . the program uses machine
   learning algorithms to analyze user preferences , dietary needs , and
   ingredient availability to create customized recipes . it offers in the
   moment direction while you cook , making cooking approachable for beginners
   as well as supplying seasoned chefs with fresh ideas . the recipe
   application for food that has been enhanced using machine learning tools .
   with a personalized , intelligent , and interactive cooking journey
   available to users of all skill levels , this app has the potential to
   revolutionize the way we experience cooking . this app uses machine learning
   algorithms to analyze user preferences , dietary needs , and ingredient
   availability to create customized recipes . it offers in the moment
   direction while you cook , making cooking approachable for beginners as well
   as supplying seasoned chefs with fresh ideas
ID healthy foods; learning tool; machine learning algorithms; machine learning;
   quantum computing; skill levels; user preferences

---

UT 538
AR Zhao J/2, 2023, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT SCI AUTOM TECHNOL CSAT, P16, DOI
   10.1109/CSAT61646.2023.00014
TI A Demand Forecasting Method for High Value-Added Agri - Food Based on
   Machine Learning and Time Series Analysis
AU Zhao J/2; Li M; Zhang J/5; Qi F
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT SCI AUTOM TECHNOL CSAT
PY 2023
AB this paper presents a hybrid method that combines machine learning and time
   series forecasting model techniques to enhance the precision and reliability
   of forecasts . after establishing a learning model for high value added agri
   food demand forecasting , we selected the annual demand for a certain high
   value added agri food as the target value . other economic indicators ,
   namely the national income index , population , and residents consumption
   level , were chosen as the key influencing factors affecting product demand
   . we collected actual demand data sequences from zhejiang province for the
   years 2006-2022 as training and test samples . comparing the forecasting
   results , it was found that this hybrid algorithm is an appropriate method
   for forecasting . compared to other individual models , it demonstrates
   higher accuracy and lower mean absolute errors in predicting the demand for
   high value added agri food
DE agri-food; demand forecasting; machine learning; time series analysis
ID forecasting; harmonic analysis; time series analysis; agri-food; demand
   forecasting; forecasting methods; hybrid method; machine time; machine
   learning; modeling techniques; on-machines; time series forecasting models;
   time series analysis; machine learning

---

UT 539
AR Camacho CAC, 2021, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V241, P349, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-16-2994-5_29
TI Multiagent System for Home Appliances on Internet of Things (MAS-HAIoT)
AU Camacho CAC; Alanis A; Sotelo J; Romero K; Jimenez S
TC 1
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2021
AB currently , there are various smart devices for homes , which have different
   functions that support domestic tasks such as keeping the pantry always full
   , accessing recipes , and creating shopping list . these devices have a high
   cost , for this reason , it arises in creating a low cost smart device ,
   which contains the options described above . in addition to having a module
   called ' nutrition ' , with which you can keep a record of meal plans and a
   diet provided by a nutritionist at a cost minor , for this , a mobile
   application was created called : mobile application for smart appliances (
   moasa ) given the current situation due to the covid 19 pandemic . it has
   resulted in many people taking shelter in their homes and taking care
   measures such as avoiding going out to non essential situations , this
   pretends to be a support to carry out grocery shopping and avoid going out
   as little as possible . the analysis and design of the device contain
   several agents , this article described the nutrition agent , the food
   ontology , its semantic network , hardware , and software for communication
   with multiple applications that support the user
DE applications in mobile devices; home appliances; intelligent agents;
   internet of things
ID application programs; domestic appliances; internet of things; knowledge
   representation; mobile computing; nutrition; semantics; software agents;
   current situation; grocery shopping; mobile applications; multiple
   applications; non essential; semantic network; shopping lists; smart
   appliances; multi-agent systems

---

UT 540
AR Singh J/1, 2023, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, DOI 10.1145/3647444.3647895
TI Recipe Recommender System Using BERTopic Modelling Technique
AU Singh J/1; Hazela B; Asthana P; Singh S/4; Tiwari AK
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2023
AB human civilization has been significantly impacted by technology , ushering
   in an era of tremendous growth . from the dawn of agriculture to the digital
   era , technical advancements have transformed communication , transportation
   , healthcare , and other fields . these advancements have not only improved
   the quality of life , but have also created new ethical and environmental
   issues , emphasizing the intricate interplay between technology and society
   in our continual journey of development and adaptation . mrecipe recommender
   systems is based on user preferences to provide personalized culinary
   recommendations . individual tastes , dietary limitations , and accessible
   ingredients are analyzed by these algorithms to develop personalized meals .
   the use of such technologies not only improves convenience , but also
   encourages innovation in the kitchen , encouraging healthier , more
   sustainable , and pleasant cooking experiences . interchanges and variations
   in the recipes are increasing because of ethnic variety , nutritional
   choices , and health requirements . globalization and health conscious
   dietary choices have necessitated recipes that accommodate a wide range of
   tastes , cultures , and dietary constraints . the internet era has
   simplified the access and sharing of varied culinary alternatives ,
   expanding global culinary history . this study s recipe recommender uses
   data preprocessing , feature engineering , and collaborative filtering
   techniques to use a collection of various recipes and user interactions .
   this method allows the system to offer meals based on the user s preferences
   and dietary constraints , boosting the user s culinary experience . this
   study demonstrates how combining these technologies may revolutionize the
   art of cooking by providing users with a more pleasurable , personalized ,
   and data driven culinary experience
DE data analytics; dataset; exploratory data analysis; flask; flutter; machine
   learning
ID collaborative filtering; data analytics; environmental technology; ethical
   technology; machine learning; nutrition; data analytics; dataset; digital
   era; exploratory data analysis; flask; flutter; human civilization; machine
   learning; modeling techniques; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 541
AR Kazancoglu Y, 2024, BUS STRATEG ENV, V33, P2788, DOI 10.1002/bse.3629
TI The role of agri-food 4.0 in climate-smart farming for controlling climate
   change-related risks: A business perspective analysis
AU Kazancoglu Y; Lafci C; Kumar A/6; Luthra S; Garza-Reyes JA; Berberoglu Y
TC 42
SO BUS STRATEG ENV
PY 2024
AB the impact of climate change , including fires , droughts and storms , on
   natural resources and agricultural output is increasing . in addition to
   these problems , resource depletion and greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions ,
   agriculture also contributes to global warming . to reduce the dangers of
   climate change , farmers are using sustainable practices . this article aims
   to link agri food 4.0 technology with climate smart agriculture ( csa ) to
   lessen the two way interaction ( both affecting and impacted ) between the
   agricultural sector and global warming , as well as dangers related to the
   agri food business . in light of this information , the research methodology
   of the paper is twofold . initially , related risks toward climate change
   and the csa and agri food 4.0 technologies to overcome these risks were
   determined through a literature review . then , risks and technologies are
   evaluated by adopting the todim ( an acronym in portuguese for interactive
   and multicriteria decision making ) , which is used for evaluating the
   criteria set with the related technologies to overcome climate change
   related risks and provide a guiding map for academics and practitioners to
   eliminate risks associated with these climate change related factors .
   according to the study s findings , the highest priority concerns in the
   agri food industries that are connected to climate change include energy
   consumption , food safety and ghg emissions . internet of things ( iot ) ,
   bio innovation and artificial intelligence are thought to be the most
   promising technological solutions to address these problems . 2023 erp
   environment and john wiley and sons ltd .
DE agri-food 40; climate change; climate-smart agriculture; environmental
   sustainability; smart and sustainable agriculture
ID agricultural production; alternative agriculture; artificial intelligence;
   climate change; decision making; farming system; multi-criteria analysis

---

UT 542
AR Labhane S, 2024, PROC INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST
   ICSES, DOI 10.1109/ICSES63760.2024.10910460
TI Utilizing Big Data for Personalized Nutrition Interventions and Health
   Outcomes
AU Labhane S; Marwaha SS; Shastri S; Raj N; Tomar M; Koshal AK
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST ICSES
PY 2024
AB the use of big data in the context of proven nutrition interventions and
   their effects on health issues is examined in this exploratory work . we
   want to tailor dietary recommendations to individual needs by leveraging big
   databases , which include health records , hereditary information , and
   healthy behaviors . big data analytics integration makes it possible to find
   distinctive health connections and beneficial patterns , which in turn makes
   it possible to express personalized dietary recommendations that can improve
   health problems . our research shows how big data may change conventional
   nutritional knowledge and lead to a more individualized strategy that takes
   specific nature and life elements into account . the results show notable
   improvements in the treatment of habitual conditions , the enhancement of
   salutary recommendations , and the promotion of general well being . to
   enhance proven nutrition , this study highlights the value of
   interdisciplinary collaboration by fusing data wisdom , nutrition , and
   healthcare moxie . refining data integration techniques and investigating
   the long term benefits of supported nutrition programs on various
   populations are examples of potential exploration directions
DE big data; dietary interventions; health outcomes; nutrition analytics are
   essential; the concepts of personalized nutrition
ID analytic integration; condition; data analytics; dietary intervention;
   health issues; health outcomes; health records; nutrition analytic be
   essential; specific nature; the concept of personalized nutrition;
   electronic health record

---

UT 543
AR Prabakaran N, 2025, CURR NUTR FOOD SCI, V21, P14, DOI
   10.2174/0115734013297002240522063241
TI A Comprehensive Review of Food Recommendation Systems in the Context of
   Nutritional Therapy for Diabetes Mellitus
AU Prabakaran N; Rajan N; Chagalasetty S; Kakani V
TC 5
SO CURR NUTR FOOD SCI
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems ( frs ) have gained prominence for providing
   personalized dietary recommendations . this paper explores the integration
   of frs and nutritional therapy to enhance the management of diabetes
   mellitus . nutritional therapy plays a crucial role in controlling blood
   glucose levels and reducing complications in diabetes . the study reviews
   and analyzes various food recommendation models in diverse scenarios of
   diabetic nutritional therapy . by considering specific needs and constraints
   , the strengths of each model are assessed , leading to the identification
   of the most suitable model for each scenario . the findings contribute to
   improving the quality of dietary guidance for individuals with diabetes
DE deep learning; diabetes mellitus; food recommendation systems; nutritional
   therapy; ontology; personalized dietary guidance
ID glucose; backpropagation neural network; bayes theorem; clinical practice
   guideline; comorbidity; comparative study; deep learning; diabetes mellitus;
   diabetic complication; diet therapy; frail elderly; gestational diabetes;
   glucose blood level; human; insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; knowledge;
   non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; pediatric patient; pregnant woman;
   review; statistical model

---

UT 544
AR Yera R, 2023, INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL, V20, DOI 10.3390/ijerph20054248
TI A Systematic Review on Food Recommender Systems for Diabetic Patients
AU Yera R; Alzahrani AA; Martínez L; Rodríguez RM
TC 38
SO INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2023
AB recommender systems are currently a relevant tool for facilitating access
   for online users , to information items in search spaces overloaded with
   possible options . with this goal in mind , they have been used in diverse
   domains such as e commerce , e learning , e tourism , e health , etc .
   specifically , in the case of the e health scenario , the computer science
   community has been focused on building recommender systems tools for
   supporting personalized nutrition by delivering user tailored foods and menu
   recommendations , incorporating the health aware dimension to a larger or
   lesser extent . however , it has been also identified the lack of a
   comprehensive analysis of the recent advances specifically focused on food
   recommendations for the domain of diabetic patients . this topic is
   particularly relevant , considering that in 2021 it was estimated that 537
   million adults were living with diabetes , being unhealthy diets a major
   risk factor that leads to such an issue . this paper is centered on
   presenting a survey of food recommender systems for diabetic patients ,
   supported by the prisma 2020 framework , and focused on characterizing the
   strengths and weaknesses of the research developed in this direction . the
   paper also introduces future directions that can be followed in the next
   future , for guaranteeing progress in this necessary research area
DE diabetes; food recommendation; nutritional information; user preferences
ID adult; algorithms; commerce; computers; diabetes mellitus; diet; humans;
   diabetes; literature review; nutritional requirement; survey; artificial
   intelligence; classification; diabetes mellitus; evaluation study; human;
   information processing; medical information system; methodology; nutritional
   parameters; process optimization; review; scientist; semantics; systematic
   review; taxonomy; adult; algorithm; commercial phenomena; computer; diet

---

UT 545
AR Yang Y/5, 2025, IEEE ANNU UBIQUITOUS COMPUT ELECTRON MOB COMMUN CONF UEMCON,
   P96, DOI 10.1109/UEMCON67449.2025.11267672
TI Mood-Based Food Recommender System for Sustainable Smart Supermarket
AU Yang Y/5; Zhong Y/1; Cheng F; Song W; Zhou H; Aibin M; Singh S/1
TC 0
SO IEEE ANNU UBIQUITOUS COMPUT ELECTRON MOB COMMUN CONF UEMCON
PY 2025
AB this study aims to propose a mood based product recommendation system in a
   supermarket setting for enhanced customer experience as well to reduce
   product wastage . the project introduces a hybrid recommender system that
   integrates collaborative filtering and content based filtering , enhancing
   recommendation accuracy and relevance by considering both historical data
   and current customer states . key features of the system include face
   recognition for identity verification , emotion detection for mood based
   product suggestions , and dynamic pricing strategies to encourage the sale
   of products nearing expiration . validated through simulations and real
   world datasets , including the publicly available instacart dataset , this
   study advances customer behavior analysis and sustainable marketing by
   offering a more dynamic and personalized shopping experience while promoting
   waste reduction
DE collaborative filtering; computer vision; content-based filtering; data-
   driven; hybrid recommender system; machine learning; sustainability
ID artificial intelligence; behavioral research; distributed computer systems;
   learning systems; recommender systems; retail stores; sales; current;
   content-based filtering; customer experience; data-driven; historical data;
   hybrid recommender systems; key feature; machine learning; product
   recommendation system; recommendation accuracy; computer vision

---

UT 546
AR Khamesian S, 2025, PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS, DOI
   10.1109/EMBC58623.2025.11253879
TI NutriGen: Personalized Meal Plan Generator Leveraging Large Language Models
   to Enhance Dietary and Nutritional Adherence
AU Khamesian S; Arefeen A; Carpenter SM; Ghasemzadeh H
TC 1
SO PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS
PY 2025
AB maintaining a balanced diet is essential for overall health , yet many
   individuals struggle with meal planning due to nutritional complexity , time
   constraints , and lack of dietary knowledge . personalized food
   recommendations can help address these challenges by tailoring meal plans to
   individual preferences , habits , and dietary restrictions . however ,
   existing dietary recommendation systems often lack adaptability , fail to
   consider real world constraints such as food ingredient availability , and
   require extensive user input , making them impractical for sustainable and
   scalable daily use . to address these limitations , we introduce nutrigen ,
   a framework based on large language models ( llm ) designed to generate
   personalized meal plans that align with user defined dietary preferences and
   constraints . by building a personalized nutrition database and leveraging
   prompt engineering , our approach enables llms to incorporate reliable
   nutritional references like the usda nutrition database while maintaining
   flexibility and ease of use . we demonstrate that llms have strong potential
   in generating accurate and user friendly food recommendations , addressing
   key limitations in existing dietary recommendation systems by providing
   structured , practical , and scalable meal plans . our evaluation shows that
   llama 3.1 8b and gpt 3.5 turbo achieve the lowest percentage errors of 1.55
   % and 3.68 % , respectively , producing meal plans that closely align with
   user defined caloric targets while minimizing deviation and improving
   precision . additionally , we compared the performance of deepseek v3
   against several established models to evaluate its potential in personalized
   nutrition planning . our results showed that it struggled with accuracy ,
   exhibiting a higher mae of 10.45 % , and was significantly slower in
   processing time compared to models like gpt 3.5 turbo and llama 3.1 8b ,
   highlighting the need for further optimization
DE ai; behavioral health; diet; ehealth; large language models; machine
   learning; personalized food recommendation; prompt engineering
ID databases factual; diet; humans; language; large language models; meals;
   precision medicine; programming languages; agri-food; behavioral research;
   food additives; food ingredients; learning systems; nutrition; balanced
   diet; behavioral health; ehealth; individual preference; language model;
   large language model; machine learning; personalized food recommendation;
   prompt engineering; time constraints; computer language; diet; factual
   database; human; language; large language model; meal; personalized
   medicine; artificial intelligence

---

UT 547
AR Hamdollahi Oskouei S, 2023, KNOWL SYST SYST, V65, P3753, DOI
   10.1007/s10115-023-01897-4
TI FoodRecNet: a comprehensively personalized food recommender system using
   deep neural networks
AU Hamdollahi Oskouei S; Hashemzadeh M
TC 30
SO KNOWL SYST SYST
PY 2023
AB today , the huge variety of foods and the existence of different food
   preferences among people have made it difficult to choose the right food
   according to people s food preferences for different meals . also ,
   achieving a pleasant balance between users food preferences and health
   requirements , considering the physical condition , diseases / allergies of
   users , and having a suitable dietary diversity , has become a requirement
   in the field of nutrition . therefore , the need for an intelligent system
   to recommend and choose the proper food based on these criteria is felt more
   and more . in this paper , a deep learning based food recommender system ,
   termed ' foodrecnet ' , is presented using a comprehensive set of
   characteristics and features of users and foods , including users long term
   and short term preferences , users health conditions , demographic
   information , culture , religion , food ingredients , type of cooking , food
   category , food tags , diet , allergies , text description , and even the
   images of the foods . the appropriate combination of features used in the
   proposed system has been identified based on detailed investigations
   conducted in this research . in order to achieve a desired architecture of
   the deep artificial neural network for our purpose , five different
   architectures are designed and evaluated , considering the specific
   characteristics of the intended application in addition , to evaluate the
   foodrecnet , this work constructs a large scale annotated dataset ,
   consisting of 3,335,492 records of food information , users and their scores
   , and 54,554 food images . the experiments conducted on this dataset and the
   ' food . com ' benchmark dataset confirm the effectiveness of the
   combination of features used in foodrecnet . the rmse rates obtained by
   foodrecnet on these two datasets are 0.7167 and 0.4930 , respectively ,
   which are much better than that of competitors . all the implementation
   source codes and datasets of this research are made publicly available at
DE artificial neural networks; deep learning; food; food recommender; health
   rules; recommender systems
ID deep neural networks; intelligent systems; large dataset; learning systems;
   network architecture; nutrition; deep learning; demographic information;
   food ingredients; food preference; food recommende; health condition; health
   requirements; health rule; information culture; physical conditions;
   recommender systems

---

UT 548
AR Elangovan T, 2025, PROC - INT CONF RECENT INNOV SCI ENG TECHNOL ICRISET, DOI
   10.1109/ICRISET64803.2025.11254935
TI A Smart Platform for Food Enthusiasts Driven by AI for Recipe Sharing and
   Discovery
AU Elangovan T; Mukesh M; Jeevan MS; Satheesh P
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF RECENT INNOV SCI ENG TECHNOL ICRISET
PY 2025
AB food is the most important element of humanity and it attaches us to each
   other through diverse food experiences . as a result , the rise of recipe
   recommendation platforms has created the demand for more intelligent and
   context aware systems that can offer personalized and precise results . in
   this paper we propose a new recipe recommending system which improves
   significant functionalities such as ingredient based search and recipe
   suggestions using bert ( bidirectional encoder representations from
   transformers ) and handle real time user feedback . whether adding the
   intended twist to a dish by only searching for certain ingredients helps to
   bring different semantic organization into traditional keyword based search
   is a question that can be answered only through experience . it incorporates
   bert s bidirectional capabilities to very closely consider the query against
   not only which ingredients , but which cooking methods were used to create a
   recipe . moreover , thanks to a dynamic adaptability feature , the ai
   continuously incorporates user feedback , tailoring its suggestions even
   further based on personal preferences and dietary restrictions . we further
   investigate the incorporation of up to the minute user input , allowing the
   model to adjust its predictions based on the feedback provided to it by the
   user in the form of ratings and comments . compared to traditional models ,
   our approach demonstrates significantly improved recommendation accuracy ,
   user engagement , and overall satisfaction , as evidenced by our results .
   as large datasets with complex ingredient combinations become more
   ubiquitous , the scalability of the model and its capacity to handle complex
   recipes will be one of the most important features of modern recipe
   recommendation systems . personalized recipe platforms are an emerging area
   in the recipe domain , and this research adds to this new area by taking a
   more contextual and interactive approach to recipe search and discovery
DE ai-driven recipe platform; bert ( bidirectional encoder representations from
   transformers ); convolutional neural networks ( cnn ); food recommendation
   system; ingredient-based search; machine learning ( ml ); personalized
   recipe discovery
ID artificial intelligence; feedback; food ingredients; large datasets;
   learning systems; recommender systems; search engines; semantic web;
   semantics; signal encoding; user interfaces; ai-driven recipe platform;
   bidirectional encoder representation from transformer; convolutional neural
   network; food recommendation system; ingredient-based search; machine
   learning; machine learning; personalized recipe discovery; user feedback;
   complex networks

---

UT 549
AR Ruggeri S, 2025, IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW, P641, DOI
   10.1109/ICDMW69685.2025.00078
TI The 'Encyclopaedia of Italian Cuisine': An Authoritative Data Source for
   Computational Gastronomy of the Italian Culinary Heritage
AU Ruggeri S; Antonazzi F; Lelli S; Mambella M; Giampaolo A; Giannetti C;
   Maretto V
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW
PY 2025
AB the fundamental premise of computational gastronomy is the availability of
   high quality data sources . in this paper , we present the encyclopedia of
   italian cuisine ( l'enciclopedia della cucina italiana eci ) , an
   authoritative resource for computational gastronomy focused on italy s
   culinary heritage . the eci has been compiled from seven of the most
   significant and widely read italian recipe books . the first release of the
   eci , online in november 2025 ( www . enciclopediacucinaitaliana . crea .
   gov . it ) , contains 200 of the most popular recipes . for each recipe ,
   all versions found across the seven most distinguished italian cookbooks are
   included for a total of 1000 recipes . each version recipe is enriched with
   nutritional and cultural metadata , including : ingredients , preparation
   methods , regional origin , nutritional values , commentary on nutritional
   quality , historical and anthropological context , and suggested pairings
   with other recipes to promote healthy and sustainable meals
DE computational gastronomy; cultural heritage preservation; gastronomy data
   sources; italian cuisine
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; food technology; nutrition; computational
   gastronomy; cultural heritage preservation; data-source; gastronomy data-
   source; high quality data; italian cuisine; nutritional qualities;
   nutritional value; preparation method; historic preservation

---

UT 550
AR Blake C, 2025, PROC ASSOC INF SCI TECHNOL, V62, P1364, DOI 10.1002/pra2.1405
TI In the Weeds: Entity Detection for Plant Based Foods
AU Blake C; Wang R/3; Zeynep M-E
TC 0
SO PROC ASSOC INF SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB funding for nutrition research in the united states is less than 5 % of the
   national institutes of health budget , so nutrition researchers often turn
   to published work . this provides an ideal environment for text mining ,
   where entity detection is the task of finding food mentions in text and
   entity linking connects each food expression to a specific food . for
   example , the system should harmonize the expressions soybean , soy bean ,
   soya bean and the scientific name glycine max ( l ) merrill along with their
   plural forms to a single concept soybean . however , the system must not
   harmonize soybean with soy sprouts because these different forms of soya
   foods have very different nutritional profiles . despite the numerous food
   ontologies available , our work on developing a gold standard for food
   entities revealed a unique set of challenges that would limit the utility of
   automated extraction for nutrition researchers . annual meeting of the
   association for information science and technology . nov . 14 18 , 2025 .
   washington , dc , usa .
DE entity detection; entity linking; large language models; natural language
   processing; nutrition
ID agri-food; computational linguistics; data mining; modeling languages;
   natural language processing systems; nitrogen fixation; entity detection;
   entity linking; fundings; language model; language processing; large
   language model; national institute of healths; natural language processing;
   natural languages; text mining; nutrition

---

UT 551
AR Youn J, 2020, FRONT ARTIF INTELL, V3, DOI 10.3389/frai.2020.584784
TI Using Word Embeddings to Learn a Better Food Ontology
AU Youn J; Naravane T; Tagkopoulos I
TC 20
SO FRONT ARTIF INTELL
PY 2020
AB food ontologies require significant effort to create and maintain as they
   involve manual and time consuming tasks , often with limited alignment to
   the underlying food science knowledge . we propose a semi supervised
   framework for the automated ontology population from an existing ontology
   scaffold by using word embeddings . having applied this on the domain of
   food and subsequent evaluation against an expert curated ontology , foodon ,
   we observe that the food word embeddings capture the latent relationships
   and characteristics of foods . the resulting ontology , which utilizes word
   embeddings trained from the wikipedia corpus , has an improvement of 89.7 %
   in precision when compared to the expert curated ontology foodon ( 0.34 vs .
   0.18 , respectively , p value = 2.6 10138 ) , and it has a 43.6 % shorter
   path distance ( hops ) between predicted and actual food instances ( 2.91 vs
   . 5.16 , respectively , p value = 4.7 1084 ) when compared to other methods
   . this work demonstrates how high dimensional representations of food can be
   used to populate ontologies and paves the way for learning ontologies that
   integrate contextual information from a variety of sources and types
DE automated ontology learning; data-driven; food ontology; machine learning;
   ontology metrics; ontology population; word embeddings

---

UT 552
AR Thianniwet T, 2025, INT SYMP TECHNOL SOC, DOI
   10.1109/ISTAS65609.2025.11269651
TI Nutritional Analysis Using Image Recognition with Location-Aware Precision
   for Food Recommendation Systems
AU Thianniwet T; Keawlamoon A; Phosaard S
TC 0
SO INT SYMP TECHNOL SOC
PY 2025
AB this study aims to design and develop an image recognition platform that
   analyzes nutrients from images of freshly cooked thai dishes and
   automatically extracts their nutritional profiles based on the user s
   location . packaged foods are immediately recorded via the open food facts
   api , retrieving complete nutritional information without additional
   training . freshly cooked dishes are analyzed using a fine tuned resnet 50
   model on the thfood 50 dataset ( 15,770 images , 50 classes ) , achieving an
   average accuracy of 78 % , a precision of 79 % , a recall of 77 % , and
   f1-score of 77 % . in addition , we design a database to store food items ,
   nutrition facts , restaurant information , and geographic data from users ,
   supporting a community based approach . we also develop an intuitive mobile
   application that allows users to capture , review , and manage this
   information in real time . this platform enables people who need to monitor
   their diet , for example , those with ncd , obesity , or fitness goals , to
   make efficient decisions . the availability of comprehensive nutrition data
   holds significant potential to inform the formulation of evidence based food
   policies by the thai government , thereby contributing to future strategies
   aimed at improving public health outcomes
DE food recommendation system; location-aware image recognition; nutrition
   analysis; resnet50
ID agri-food; geographic information systems; image analysis; image
   recognition; nutrition; public health; f1 scores; food recommendation
   system; information data; location-aware; location-aware image recognition;
   nutrition analyze; nutritional information; nutritional profiles; packaged
   food; resnet50; location

---

UT 553
AR Saengsupawat P, 2026, APPL ONTOL, DOI 10.1177/15705838261434792
TI FONDUE: A Food Ontology for Depression-Related Dietary Recommendations
AU Saengsupawat P; Thippongtorn A; Angskun J; Angskun T
TC 0
SO APPL ONTOL
PY 2026
AB major depressive disorder is often treated with medication . these
   antidepressants can cause side effects affecting health and lifestyle .
   dietary interventions can support traditional treatments , enhancing overall
   health . however , current food recommendation systems lack personalized
   menu options for those with mental health issues . this research focuses on
   designing a dietary recommendation model for depression . the main
   theoretical implication is a novel food menu inferring process using a food
   knowledge graph with semantic rules called fondue ( food knwledge graphs
   with semantics rules ) . the design of the food knowledge graph focuses on
   dietary restrictions in both mental and physical conditions . the semantic
   rules are created using descriptive logic and the sparql query language to
   infer diets appropriate for patients with depression . the fondue was
   evaluated by analyzing thirty common patient case studies , each
   representing different physical conditions in patients with depression . the
   evaluation results revealed that the accuracy of the retrieved relevant
   menus was high , with an average precision of 0.86. however , the
   completeness of the retrieved relevant menus was moderate , with an average
   recall of 0.67. the lower recall observed can be attributed to the numerous
   menus within the model , which results in many relevant options still
   needing to be extracted . the average f measure , which reflects a balance
   between precision and recall , scored 0.74. compared with chatgpt and google
   gemini , fondue demonstrated superior performance . consequently , the
   personalized dietary recommendation model effectively suggests food menus
   tailored to address patients physical and mental health needs , instilling
   confidence in its efficacy
DE depression; dietary recommendation; knowledge graph; semantic rule
ID diseases; knowledge graph; nutrition; ontology; query languages; query
   processing; current; depression; dietary recommendation; food ontology;
   health issues; knowledge graphs; mental health; physical conditions;
   semantic rules; side effect; semantics

---

UT 554
AR Escolar EG, 2025, INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI, V39, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijgfs.2024.101088
TI A topological analysis of the space of recipes
AU Escolar EG; Shimada Y; Yuasa M
TC 2
SO INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI
PY 2025
AB in recent years , the use of data driven methods has provided insights into
   underlying patterns and principles behind culinary recipes . in this
   exploratory work , we introduce the use of topological data analysis ,
   especially persistent homology , in order to study the space of culinary
   recipes . in particular , persistent homology analysis provides a set of
   recipes surrounding the multiscale ' holes ' in the space of existing
   recipes . we then propose a method to generate novel ingredient combinations
   using combinatorial optimization on this topological information . we made
   biscuits using the novel ingredient combinations , which were confirmed to
   be acceptable enough by a sensory evaluation study . our findings indicate
   that topological data analysis has the potential for providing new tools and
   insights in the study of culinary recipes
DE computational gastronomy; novel recipe generation; topological data analysis

---

UT 555
AR Bianchini D, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15438 LNCS, P327, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-0570-5_24
TI Resource-Based Blockchain Integration in Agri-food Supply Chains
AU Bianchini D; De Antonellis V; Garda M; Melchiori M
TC 2
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB in today s agri food 4.0 supply chains , food traceability is crucial for
   enhancing transparency , safeguarding consumer health , and fostering trust
   in the food ecosystem . blockchain technology ( bct ) is proposed as a
   solution , offering immutable , transparent , and decentralized data
   persistence capabilities . the complexity increases in scenarios with
   intertwined supply chains , where actors engage with various bcts , each
   having its own technological infrastructure , programming language for smart
   contracts , and strategies for handling large volumes of on chain data
   storage , to save costs and ensure scalability . in this paper , we propose
   to treat traceability data exchanged among supply chain actors as resources
   , enabling standardized interactions with bcts , rather than focusing on
   specific storage technologies . our approach : ( i ) leverages a base model
   to create tailored views for modeling data resources in traceability for the
   agri food supply chain , aligning data persistence with the access level
   requirements of the supply chain actors . ( ii ) defines a resource oriented
   approach for integrating bcts in intertwined supply chains , guided by these
   views , in order to develop bct based web applications . experiments with a
   real case study demonstrate the benefits of our approach in addressing bcts
   integration issues . in particular , in this paper we focus on how this
   approach supports enhancing agri food 4.0 supply chains consumers trust and
   transparency
DE blockchain in supply chains; blockchain integration; resource-oriented
   architecture; smart contracts; web applications
ID agri-food supply chains; blockchain; blockchain in supply chain; blockchain
   integration; data persistence; resource-oriented architectures; supply chain
   actors; web application; web applications; blockchain

---

UT 556
AR Seyam A, 2025, CLEAN LOGIST SUPPLY CHAIN, V15, DOI
   10.1016/j.clscn.2025.100225
TI A stacking ensemble model for food demand forecasting: A preventative
   approach to food waste reduction
AU Seyam A; Mathew SS; Du B; Barachi ME; Shen J/1
TC 10
SO CLEAN LOGIST SUPPLY CHAIN
PY 2025
AB building effective demand forecasting is crucial for better planning and
   ensuring sustainability within food supply chain systems . the food industry
   has received the least attention for building demand forecasting approaches
   , with a noticeable lack of utilizing ensemble stacking models .
   additionally , while some models have achieved accurate predictions , they
   do not consider freshness variables and are not assessed for their impact on
   waste reduction . this paper develops a demand forecasting framework that is
   considered as a preventative approach to reduce food waste by enabling food
   retailers to better manage inventory and balance supply with demand . the
   paper first develops an ensemble stacking model combining the random forest
   , support vector regression , extreme gradient boosting , long short term
   memory models as base learners and ridge regression as a meta learner . the
   performance accuracy of the proposed model is assessed by benchmarking with
   singular models using various metrics . the experimental results reveal that
   the proposed stacking model outperforms random forest and extreme gradient
   boosting while consistently outperforming support vector regression and long
   short term memory model , achieving a coefficient of determination score of
   0.99 , mean absolute error of 0.63 , mean absolute percentage error of 1.8 ,
   and prediction accuracy of 98.2 % . the model s performance is further
   assessed on its impact on waste reduction by utilizing the predicted demand
   to replenish the inventory for the next day dynamically . the promising
   results indicate that relying on the predicted demand to replenish the
   inventory achieves a significant reduction in food waste
DE demand forecast; food retailer; food waste; machine learning; stacking
   model; sustainability

---

UT 557
AR Abhishek HB, 2025, PROC IEEE INT CONF ADV NEXT-GEN COMPUT SCI ICANCS, DOI
   10.1109/ICANCS65819.2025.11376688
TI AI-Recipe Recommendation System
AU Abhishek HB; Mallya PR; Hiremath PC; Ganguli S; Pradeep SN; Kannadaguli P
TC 0
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF ADV NEXT-GEN COMPUT SCI ICANCS
PY 2025
AB the development and deployment of a deep learning ( dl ) and machine
   learning ( ml ) -based recipe recommendation system techniques to make
   recipe recommendations based on user available ingredients is presented in
   this project . with the increasing complexity of meal planning and the wide
   variety of indian and international cuisines , people frequently do not
   understand what they are capable of producing with certain or limited
   ingredient . to overcome this difficulty , the system makes use of a dataset
   of more than 59,000 recipes that has been enhanced by preprocessing
   procedures such ingredient standardization , data cleaning , normalization ,
   and duplicate removal . tf idf , word2vec and glove embeddings were among
   the methods used to extract features , logistic regressions , k nearest
   neighbors , and xgboost , as well as cnn style deep learning algorithms ,
   lstm , and transformer based architectures , were assessed . transformer
   models outperformed the others in terms of accurately and contextually aware
   recipe prediction . to help accommodate user time constraints , recipes were
   separated into three as well . preparations time bins , quick ( less than 30
   minutes ) , medium ( 30 to 60 minutes ) , and long ( more than 60 minutes )
   , a streamlit based web application was created to guarantee real world
   applicability , users may enter ingredients and instantly obtain recipe
   recommendations and preparation instructions . the absence of dietary choice
   and allergy considerations is among the system s present drawbacks , but it
   also improves user convenience , reduces food waste and encourages effective
   ingredient use . overall , by providing individualized , effective and
   sustainable meal recommendations , the study demonstrates how ai driven
   solutions have the potential to revolutionize everyday cooking
DE ai-driven meal planning; contextually aware prediction; deep learning ( dl
   ); ingredient standardization  and  preprocessing; machine learning ( ml );
   recipe recommendation system; streamlit web application; transformer models
ID data mining; deep learning; food ingredients; food waste; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; logistic regression; nearest neighbor search;
   standardization; ai-driven meal planning; contextually aware prediction;
   deep learning; ingredient standardization  and  preprocessing; machine
   learning; machine learning; recipe recommendation system; streamlit web
   application; transformer modeling; web application; web applications;
   recommender systems

---

UT 558
AR Pagou ES, 2024, LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG,
   V566 LNICST, P276, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-56396-6_17
TI Food Recommender System in Sub-Saharan Africa: Challenges and Prospects
AU Pagou ES; Kamla VC; Tchappi I; Ngathic J; Tsakam L; Najjar A
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG
PY 2024
AB nutrition is one of the most important lifestyle components that can be
   altered , therefore even minor changes or bad food choices can have a huge
   impact on health . food recommendation systems are especially useful for
   maintaining a balanced diet or preventing chronic diseases such as diabetes
   , cancer , and cardiovascular disease , which are responsible for 63 % of
   deaths worldwide , according to the world health organization . the
   underlying problem with building a meal suggestion system is a lack of
   contextual information for creating a user profile . it is critical to
   consider the social , cultural , economic , political , and environmental
   facts relevant to certain regions of the world . creating user profiles
   based on artificial intelligence ( ai ) , on the other hand , need
   contextual information that takes into account social , cultural , economic
   , political , and environmental elements . in sub saharan africa , where
   diet is connected to ethnicity and climatic seasons , ai based dietary
   advice can target healthy or malnourished individuals . this article
   examines the current status of food recommendation systems , obstacles ,
   lessons learned , and future directions and open questions . the objective
   is to provide additional user and meal profile characteristics to future
   item and recipe suggestion systems , hence encouraging healthy eating for
   sub saharan africa
DE chronic diseases; nutrition e-coach; recommender system; sub-saharan africa
ID diseases; recommender systems; user profile; balanced diet; cancer disease;
   cardiovascular disease; chronic disease; contextual information; current
   status; nutrition e-coach; sub-saharan africa; user profiles; world health
   organization; nutrition

---

UT 559
AR Hafiz S, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1742 LNNS, P59, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-12987-1_7
TI AgroTrust: A Blockchain-Enabled AI-Powered Organic Product Certification
   System
AU Hafiz S; Rahman MA; Zamee T; Hossain MS; Akter M; Kamal AM; Hasan M;
   Rokonuzzaman M; Sadia F
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the organic agriculture sector in bangladesh faces significant challenges
   due to the absence of a national organic product certification system . as a
   result , local producers are often forced to rely on expensive international
   certification agencies , creating barriers to market entry , increasing
   costs and limiting consumer trust . to solve this , our proposed system is a
   blockchain enabled , ai powered web platform designed to establish a secure
   , transparent , and efficient organic product certification system tailored
   for the bangladeshi context . a key innovation is its hash based file
   verification to minimize gas fees to store data on the chain . farmers or
   producers submitted product data like images , videos , and documents ,
   which are encrypted ( aes 256 ) and stored locally , while cryptographic
   hashes ( sha 256 ) are saved on chain . any alteration in a file changes its
   hash , and qr code scanning will instantly flag tampering , ensuring product
   integrity . it also integrates tokenized payment systems using erc 20 tokens
   alongside sslcommerz payment gateway , ensuring secure , traceable , and
   accessible transactions for all stakeholders . key features include smart
   contract automation , real time certification tracking , a decentralized
   dispute resolution mechanism , and qr code based traceability for consumers
   . this project , therefore , aims to democratize organic product
   certification , lower operational costs , and build consumer trust , while
   aligning with global trends in digital food supply chains
DE ai validation; blockchain; certification; organic product; qr code;
   tokenized transactions
ID agriculture; chains; codes ( symbols ); cryptography; electronic money; food
   supply; international cooperation; network security; supply chains;
   agriculture sectors; ai validation; blockchain; certification; certification
   systems; organic agriculture; organic products; product certification; qr
   codes; tokenized transaction; blockchain

---

UT 560
AR Derakhti A, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su15065078
TI Industry 4.0 and Beyond: A Review of the Literature on the Challenges and
   Barriers Facing the Agri-Food Supply Chain
AU Derakhti A; Santibanez Gonzalez EDR; Mardani A
TC 33
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB in recent years , the industry 4.0 concept has gained considerable attention
   from professionals , researchers and decision makers . for its part , the
   covid 19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of managing the agri food
   supply chain to ensure the food that the population needs . industry 4.0 and
   its extensions can address the needs of the agri food supply chain by
   bringing new features such as security , transparency and traceability in
   line with sustainable development goals . this study aims to systematically
   analyze the literature to address the challenges and barriers against the
   application of industry 4.0 and its related technologies in the management
   of an agri food supply chain . currently , despite the large number of
   publications , there is no clear agreement on what industry 4.0 is , and
   even less its extensions . the next revolution that includes new
   technologies and improves several existing technologies brings additional
   conceptual and practical complexity . consequently , in this work we first
   determine the main components of i 4.0 and their extensions by studying the
   literature , and then , in the second step , define the agri food supply
   chain on which i 4.0 technologies are applied . two well known databases web
   of science and scopus were chosen to extract data for the systematic review
   of the literature . for the final evaluation , we identified 24 of 100
   reviewed publications . the results provide an exhaustive analysis of the
   different i 4.0 technologies and their extensions that are applied in
   regards to the agri food supply chain . in addition , we find 15 challenges
   that are classified into five major themes in the agri food supply chain :
   technical , operational , financial , social and infrastructure . the four
   most important challenges identified are technological architecture ,
   security and privacy , big data management and iot ( internet ) -based
   infrastructure . only a few articles addressed sustainability , which
   reaffirms and demonstrates a considerable gap in terms of the sustainable
   agri food supply chain , with waste management being the one that has
   attracted the most attention . this review provides a roadmap for academics
   and practitioners alike , showing the gaps and facilitating the
   identification of i 4.0 technologies that can help address the challenges
   facing the efficient management of an agri food supply chain
DE agri-food 40; agri-food 40 supply chain; agri-food supply chain; agriculture
   40; food waste management; industry 40; supply chain 40; sustainability;
   water management
ID covid-19; data management; literature review; supply chain management;
   sustainable development goal; waste management; water management

---

UT 561
AR Ornab AM, 2019, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V847, P147, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-13-2254-9_13
TI An empirical analysis of collaborative filtering algorithms for building a
   food recommender system
AU Ornab AM; Chowdhury S/1; Toa SB
TC 2
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2019
AB recommender system has been playing a great role in almost every sectors
   starting from online shopping web sites to online movie sites and social
   networking sites . however , the use of recommendation engine has been very
   little in the food sector . sometimes people become tired of having the same
   kind of meals everyday because of several reasons . some people need to
   consume fixed food due to their illness . others consume same meals everyday
   to stay healthy despite having any diseases . in this paper , we have first
   discussed two collaborative filtering algorithms that can be used to build a
   food recommender system for the people who have been leading a monotonous
   food consumption lifestyle and are bored of having the same kind of meals
   every day . after that , we have analyzed the two approaches of building a
   food recommender system and finally concluded that the model based approach
   is more reliable than the memory based approach . springer nature singapore
   pte ltd . 2019 .
DE alternating least squares ( als ); collaborative filtering; cosine
   similarities; recommender system
ID collaborative filtering; food supply; signal filtering and prediction;
   alternating least squares; collaborative filtering algorithms; cosine
   similarity; empirical analysis; food consumption; memory-based approach;
   model-based approach; social networking sites; recommender systems

---

UT 562
AR Zhao M, 2024, CHIIR - PROC CONF HUM INTERACT RETR, P97, DOI
   10.1145/3627508.3638328
TI The Effect of Simulated Contextual Factors on Recipe Rating and Nutritional
   Intake Behaviour
AU Zhao M; Harvey M; Cameron D; Hopfgartner F
TC 0
SO CHIIR - PROC CONF HUM INTERACT RETR
PY 2024
AB despite the importance of context in recommender systems ( rss ) more
   generally , and its clear applicability in the food domain , most existing
   research focuses on single contextual factors , and only considers simple
   extrinsic factors such as location and time . no rss research has
   systematically explored the impact of multiple dynamic factors , or
   investigated the effect of emotion in determining people s eating , recipe
   rating and nutritional intake behavior . to bridge these gaps , we conducted
   a comprehensive large scale ( n=397 ) crowdsourced experimental study to
   uncover the intricate relationship between various simulated contextual
   factors and users subsequent recipe rating and implied nutritional intake
   behavior . we further aimed to explore how these contextual factors can be
   incorporated to improve recommendation performance . four distinct types of
   contextual factors were investigated : seasonal , emotional , busyness and
   physical activity , encompassing a total of seven elements . our findings
   show that people s eating preferences and the likelihood of them choosing to
   eat healthy recipes vary depending on the simulated context they find
   themselves in . moreover , we demonstrate how these contextual features can
   be used to significantly improve recipe rating prediction performance . our
   research has implications for the future development of food rss , and shows
   that emotion aware systems could lead to better healthy food recommendations
DE context-aware food recommender systems; contextual features; healthy
   recommendations; machine learning; user study
ID behavioral research; machine learning; nutrition; context-aware; context-
   aware food recommende system; contextual factors; contextual feature;
   extrinsic factors; healthy recommendation; machine learning; research focus;
   simple++; user study; recommender systems

---

UT 563
AR Gopalakrishnan AK, 2021, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V141, P107, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-7106-0_11
TI A Food Recommendation System Based on BMI, BMR, k-NN Algorithm, and a BPNN
AU Gopalakrishnan AK
TC 7
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2021
AB in this research , a novel food recommendation system is presented for
   recommending a proper calorie daily food for an overweighed person to gain a
   healthy body status by using his or her body mass index ( bmi ) , basal
   metabolic rate ( bmr ) , k nearest neighbors ( k nn ) algorithm , and a back
   propagation neural network ( bpnn ) . the system estimates the overweight
   status of a person by using the bmi value . by using the bmr value , the
   system calculates the daily needed food calories ( dnc ) of a person . the k
   nn algorithm selects a proper calorie daily food set from the food dataset
   by using the saturated value of the dnc as its test object . the system
   predicts the days required for a person to gain a healthy bmi status with
   the recommended food by using overweight and saturated dnc values . finally
   , the system evaluates its user s satisfaction level based on the bpnn . the
   presented food recommendation system could be an effective way of
   propagating healthy weight awareness among common people . 2021 , the editor
   ( s ) ( if applicable ) and the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer nature singapore pte ltd .
DE bmi; bmr; daily needed food calorie; knn algorithm; neural network;
   overweight value; saturated daily food calorie; user satisfaction

---

UT 564
AR George T, 2025, ETIS INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INTELL SYST ETIS, DOI
   10.1109/ETIS64005.2025.10961637
TI Hybrid Recipe Recommendation System Using KNN and Collaborative Filtering
   Techniques
AU George T; Sobha T; Safa RH; Biju E; Dinesh S; Anil AS
TC 1
SO ETIS INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INTELL SYST ETIS
PY 2025
AB discovering the perfect recipe or ingredient combination can be a challenge
   given the vast array of culinary options . our recipe recommendation system
   addresses this by combining k nearest neighbors ( knn ) and collaborative
   filtering to offer highly personalized and accurate recipe suggestions .
   using a rich dataset of recipes , ingredients , and user reviews , the
   system identifies similar dishes based on ingredient profiles and user
   preferences . knn leverages tf idf vectorization and cosine similarity to
   find related recipes , while collaborative filtering uses non negative
   matrix factorization ( nmf ) to analyze user behavior and suggest
   personalized options . experimental results show that the system effectively
   delivers diverse and relevant recommendations , enhancing the user s
   culinary journey
DE collaborative filtering; cosine similarity; culinary options; ingredient
   profiles; k-nearest neighbors ( knn ); non-negative matrix factorization (
   nmf ); personalized recommendations; recipe recommendation system; tf-ide
   vectorization; user preferences
ID flavors; k-nearest neighbors; cosine similarity; culinary option; ingredient
   profile; k-near neighbor; nearest-neighbour; non-negative matrix
   factorization; non-negative matrix factorization; personalized
   recommendation; recipe recommendation system; tf-ide vectorization; user
   preferences; vectorization; non-negative matrix factorization

---

UT 565
AR Marinchev I, 2014, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, V883, P234, DOI
   10.1145/2659532.2659596
TI A customised metric for foods categorization
AU Marinchev I; Agre G
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2014
AB the paper presents a metric specifically tailored toward categorization of
   food products . formally it is not a metric in mathematical sense but
   heuristic that consists of two functions one that estimates the distance
   between the target food product and the category instances and a second one
   that estimates the level of trust that we can have to the category implied
   by the category of the nearest category instance . all foods are described
   by a set of attributes that corresponds to their nutrients . this is the
   most appropriate representation of foods data as the content of the food is
   the base for developing healthy menus and plays a critical role in the
   support of the physical fitness and personal appearance . several
   experiments were performed that demonstrate the metric is good enough when
   more general categories ( categories from the upper levels of the food
   ontology ) are in use or for finding the substitutes of a given product
DE data classification; expert systems; food nutrients; metrics; nutrition
ID expert systems; food products; functions; nutrients; nutrition; data
   classification; food ontology; metrics; physical fitness; estimation

---

UT 566
AR Singh R, 2025, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V84, P38371, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-025-20719-z
TI Taste-centered deep matrix factorization model for food recommendations
AU Singh R; Dwivedi P; Kant V/1
TC 2
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems ( frss ) provide personalized food
   recommendations to users based on their taste preferences . in frss , users
   unique taste preferences are influenced by personal history , specific
   dietary needs , and the impact of social connection recommendations . these
   preferences are not captured efficiently in existing traditional frss
   because these preferences are quite complex . therefore , deep neural
   networks ( dnns ) came into existence to deal with this limitation . deep
   neural networks dominate traditional recommendation techniques due to their
   ability to capture complex interactions effectively . this paper presents a
   novel approach known as ' taste centered deep matrix factorization model '
   to understand users food preferences through ratings . it hybridizes dnns
   with matrix factorization for prediction and recommendation . in this paper
   , firstly , deep matrix factorization ( deepmf ) utilizes a multi layer
   perceptron ( mlp ) to handle the interactions between user and item along
   with their latent features . this entails feeding the suitable data into the
   mlp layers to learn intricate patterns and relationships . secondly , the
   learned representations from the mlp are employed to generate appropriate
   food recommendations to users . this model assists users in developing good
   eating habits that align with their food choices and requirements .
   experimental analysis on two standard datasets demonstrates that our
   proposed frss model outperforms several state of the art models in terms of
   accuracy
DE collaborative filtering; deep neural networks; food recommender systems;
   matrix factorization; multilayer perceptron; web personalization
ID collaborative filtering; deep neural networks; food chemistry; matrix
   factorization; factorization model; food recommender system; matrix
   factorizations; multilayers perceptrons; neural networks; personal history;
   recommendation techniques; social connection; traditional food; web
   personalization; food ingredients

---

UT 567
AR Chatterjee S, 2022, IEEE CONF INTERDISCIP APPROACHES TECHNOL MANAG SOC INNOV
   IATMSI, DOI 10.1109/IATMSI56455.2022.10119320
TI A Stack-based Ensemble Model with Explainability for Food Demand Forecasting
AU Chatterjee S
TC 2
SO IEEE CONF INTERDISCIP APPROACHES TECHNOL MANAG SOC INNOV IATMSI
PY 2022
AB ahstract the demand forecasting method involves estimating the number of
   products that customers will buy using previous data . many industries ,
   including the food sector and retail , employ this prediction exercise .
   prediction is essential in restaurants since the majority of fundamental
   products have a limited shelf life . demands are influenced by a variety of
   overt and covert circumstances , including season , area , and others . in
   this study , machine learning uses multiple data sources , like internal and
   external data , to forecast the supply of various goods based on demand .
   although various machine learning models have already been applied to
   predicting demand , very limited work has been performed to explain the
   black box nature of the model . in this work , an attempt is made to explain
   the interpretability of the model . here , we first present the food demand
   prediction problem as a regression problem and then apply various machine
   learning models to predict the demand for food . after that , a stacked
   based ensemble model is employed to address various concerns coming from the
   base models , achieving better prediction . finally , the interpretability
   is resolved to utilize effective learning techniques like local
   interpretable model agnostic explanations ( lime )
DE ensemble; explainable ai; food forecasting; lime
ID lime; machine learning; demand forecasting; ensemble; ensemble models;
   explainable ai; food demand; food forecasting; forecasting methods;
   interpretability; local interpretable model-agnostic explanation; machine
   learning models; forecasting

---

UT 568
AR Castellano-Escuder P, 2020, DATABASE, V2020, DOI 10.1093/databa/baaa033
TI FOBI: An ontology to represent food intake data and associate it with
   metabolomic data
AU Castellano-Escuder P; González-Domínguez R; Wishart DS; Andrés-Lacueva C;
   Sánchez-Pla A
TC 41
SO DATABASE
PY 2020
AB nutrition research can be conducted by using two complementary approaches :
   ( i ) traditional self reporting methods or ( ii ) via metabolomics
   techniques to analyze food intake biomarkers in biofluids . however , the
   complexity and heterogeneity of these two very different types of data often
   hinder their analysis and integration . to manage this challenge , we have
   developed a novel ontology that describes food and their associated
   metabolite entities in a hierarchical way . this ontology uses a formal
   naming system , category definitions , properties and relations between both
   types of data . the ontology presented is called fobi ( food biomarker
   ontology ) and it is composed of two interconnected sub ontologies . one is
   a food ontology consisting of raw foods and 'multi component foods while the
   second is a biomarker ontology containing food intake biomarkers classified
   by their chemical classes . these two sub ontologies are conceptually
   independent but interconnected by different properties . this allows data
   and information regarding foods and food biomarkers to be visualized in a
   bidirectional way , going from metabolomics to nutritional data or vice
   versa . potential applications of this ontology include the annotation of
   foods and biomarkers using a well defined and consistent nomenclature , the
   standardized reporting of metabolomics workflows ( e . g . metabolite
   identification , experimental design ) or the application of different
   enrichment analysis approaches to analyze nutrimetabolomic data .
   availability : fobi is freely available in both owl ( web ontology language
   ) and obo ( open biomedical ontologies ) formats at the project s github
   repository and fobi visualization tool is available in 2020 the author ( s )
   2020 . published by oxford university press .
ID biological ontologies; biomarkers; eating; food; humans; internet;
   metabolome; metabolomics; software; biological marker; biological ontology;
   eating; food; human; internet; metabolome; metabolomics; software

---

UT 569
AR Elhendawy A, 2025, INT CONF INTELL METHODS SYST APPL IMSA, P244, DOI
   10.1109/IMSA65733.2025.11167259
TI AI-Driven Personalized Meal Recommendation System for Diabetes Management
AU Elhendawy A; Hesham A; Abdel-Mohsen M
TC 0
SO INT CONF INTELL METHODS SYST APPL IMSA
PY 2025
AB the effectiveness of diabetes management relies greatly on dietary
   discipline , yet most existing recommendation systems do not offer
   personalized meal guidance to diabetic patients . this research creates a
   machine learning based recommendation system for the dietary needs of
   patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes . our system advances generic
   nutrition platforms through medical threshold inclusion , real time
   personalization , and sophisticated classification approaches to offer
   precise individualized meal guidance . we removed all nutritionally
   inadequate and unfinished records from an initial database of 230 000 meals
   sourced from a publicly available kaggle . com dataset , refining i t t o 1
   3,000 v alidated r ecipes . f eature e ngineering focused on carbohydrates
   breaking down sugars , calculating total carbohydrate amounts and sugar
   ratios , and estimating glycemic load . five models long short term memory (
   lstm ) , random forest , artificial n eural n etwork ( ann ) , n aive b ayes
   , a nd k nearest neighbors ( knn )-were trained and evaluated using accuracy
   , precision , recall , and f1-score . lstm achieved the best balance between
   diabetic classes , with an f1-score of 0.96 and overall precision of 97 % .
   the system delivers scalable clinical assistance by creating eating plans
   using user provided metrics ( bmi and glucose ) together with engineered
   diet components . these parameters are incorporated at inference to enable
   real time personalization . configuration f ollows recommendations suitable
   for both diabetic types and individual patients . this research demonstrates
   artificial intelligence s potential to improve chronic disease management
   and lays foundations for future wearable device integration with real time
   health monitoring systems . future work will include continuous glucose
   monitor integration , mobile deployment , clinical validation studies , and
   expansion to culturally diverse meal corpora to assess long term adherence
   and outcomes
ID learning systems; long short-term memory; nearest neighbor search;
   nutrition; recommender systems; wearable technology; classification
   approach; diabetes management; diabetics patients; existing recommendation
   systems; f1 scores; machine learning; personalizations; real- time; short-
   term memory; type-2 diabetes; glucose

---

UT 570
AR Yusof N, 2015, IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG,
   V2, P301, DOI 10.5220/0005615003010306
TI Ontology modelling of Malaysian food exchange list
AU Yusof N; Noah SA; Wahid ST
TC 2
SO IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG
PY 2015
AB designing dietary menu planning is a complex problem solving task . it
   involves several constraints and extensive common sense . case based
   reasoning ( cbr ) solves the complexity by storing an expert common sense in
   the case base . case adaptation ( ca ) is important for design task using
   cbr since old cases are partially similar as a current one . an automatic ca
   mainly focused on the processing level rather than at the data level . on
   the other hand , semantic technology ( st ) inserts the intelligence
   features by shifting the focus on the application code to the data . this
   can leverage the burden on the logical processing of adaptation engine .
   ontology is a prerequisite in st . thus , this research proposes a
   computational model of design ca using an ontological approach . this paper
   discusses the experience we gained during the process of ontology modeling
   based on the od101 method . the malaysian food ontology was successfully
   developed to make the domain assumptions explicit in supporting the
   reasoning process of case adaptation for dietary menu planning
   recommendation
DE case adaptation; case based reasoning; constraints; design; dietary menu
   planning; ontology
ID design; knowledge engineering; knowledge management; ontology; semantics;
   case adaptation; case based reasonings ( cbr ); complex problem solving
   tasks; computational model; constraints; dietary menu; ontological approach;
   semantic technologies; case based reasoning

---

UT 571
AR Nandeppanavar A, 2024, INT J DATA ANAL TECH STRATEG, V16, P487, DOI
   10.1504/IJDATS.2024.142485
TI A machine learning-based food recommendation system with nutrition
   estimation
AU Nandeppanavar A; Kudari M; Bammigatti P; Vakkund K
TC 1
SO INT J DATA ANAL TECH STRATEG
PY 2024
AB the human body needs energy to perform various activities , which are
   provided by calories . the proposed work is an efficient , user friendly
   tool to assist calorie calculation . the system takes inputs such as height
   , weight , age , gender , and daily exercise level to estimate the
   recommended daily caloric intake . to achieve this , three machine learning
   models , k nearest neighbors ( knn ) , decision tree and random forest
   algorithms , are employed to enhance the accuracy of predictions . model
   accuracy achieved is 96.4 % for knn , 97.1 % for decision tree and 96.8 %
   using random forest algorithms . in addition to providing personalized
   caloric intake recommendations , the proposed system also offers diet
   recipes for breakfast , lunch and dinner tailored to the individuals s
   specific needs and preferences . through the integration of machine learning
   algorithms , a user friendly gui , and personalized diet recommendations ,
   the project aims to promote healthier eating habits and overall well being
   for users
DE accuracy; bmi; body mass index; calorie; data processing; dietary; recipes;
   user interface visualization

---

UT 572
AR Perera Y, 2023, PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES EVOL DIGIT TRANSFORM, DOI
   10.1109/ICITR61062.2023.10382927
TI Multiple Objective Optimization Based Dietary Recommender System
AU Perera Y; Karannagoda R; Weiman D; Fernando S
TC 2
SO PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES EVOL DIGIT TRANSFORM
PY 2023
AB in contemporary society , the profound impact of an individual s diet on
   their health underscores the critical importance of dietary choices in
   maintaining overall wellbeing . amidst the challenges posed by modern ,
   hectic lifestyles , the manual tracking of meals becomes a cumbersome task .
   this paper addresses this issue through the development of a comprehensive
   meal recommender system . the envisioned system aims to automatically
   analyze and offer a nutritional breakdown of meals , alleviating the burden
   on individuals to manually track their dietary intake . it goes beyond
   conventional solutions by providing personalized recommendations that not
   only satisfy daily nutritional requirements but also cater to user
   preferences and promote meal diversity . this research endeavors to
   contribute to the enhancement of customers overall well being by leveraging
   the capabilities of an advanced recommendation system . the paper outlines
   the design and implementation of this system , highlighting its potential to
   revolutionize how individuals manage their diets in contemporary , fast
   paced lifestyles
DE food diversity; food recommendation system; multiple-objective optimization;
   nutritional score; recommender system; user preference
ID multi-objective optimization; nutrition; dietary intakes; food diversity;
   food recommendation system; manual tracking; multiple-objective
   optimization; nutritional score; personalized recommendation; user
   preferences; well being; well being; recommender systems

---

UT 573
AR Fu Y, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15101647
TI Nutrient-Aware Personalized Meal Recommendation Using Structured Food
   Knowledge and Constraint Verification
AU Fu Y; Cai L; Wu R/1; Kang Y; Zhao Y/3
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB along with the enhancement of people s public health consciousness and the
   requirement for individual diet arrangement getting more urgent , the meal
   recommendation method , which is based on artificial intelligence , has
   hence become an active research domain in the field of intelligent health .
   one system that makes practical recommendations must deal with the user s
   unclear queries , while at the same time , it must satisfy strict nutrient
   demands . a great number of existing methods at present either do not take
   into account verifiable food composition data , or they handle implicit
   dietary restrictions in a not good way . for solving these problems , we put
   forward care ( constraint aware recipe engine ) . beginning from a mixed
   retrieval augmented generation ( rag ) basic model ( care v1.0 ) , we have
   developed care v2.0 , which is a suggestion engine that unites intention
   polish , knowledge graph enlargement , and rule based checking in a unified
   working line . instead of depending on huge black box models , our framework
   utilizes an effective language model that possesses 1.5 b parameters . user
   inquiry content are undergone parsing to become structured nutrition targets
   . a food knowledge graph links abstract health notions to specific cooking
   materials . and the obtained candidate results are filtered in accordance
   with strict diet restrictions , with optional checking carried out by an
   automatic agent based reviewer . under a zero shot cold start situation ,
   the system attains a semantic recall@5 of 0.825 on 400 k recipes coming from
   recipe1m+ and a newly created fuzzy query benchmark ( carebench 150 ) , and
   it thus has a better performance than dense retrieval baselines ( 0.550 ) as
   well as direct zero shot prompting . the constraint satisfaction rate is
   located at 85.0 % in fast mode , and it rises to 98.5 % when the
   verification module is in the working state . therefore , it supports the
   safety of recommendations . these findings indicate that structured food
   knowledge , which matches a compact algorithmic framework , can therefore
   connect unclear user intentions and accurate nutrition requirements
   effectively
DE dietary constraints; food knowledge graph; intent refinement; lightweight
   language models; meal recommendation; personalized nutrition
ID adult; article; artificial intelligence; benchmarking; cold; consciousness;
   cooking; diet; diet restriction; female; food composition; human;
   information retrieval; knowledge; knowledge graph; language model; meal;
   nutrient; nutritional requirement; personalized nutrition; polish citizen;
   prescription; retrieval-augmented generation; zero-shot prompting

---

UT 574
AR Bagozi A, 2024, CEUR WORK PROC, V3741, P392
TI Food Certification through Collaborative Sensory Analysis Methods and Tools
AU Bagozi A; Bianchini D
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2024
AB in the current global food market , there exists a vital need for data
   driven tools that ensure the highest quality of food . guaranteeing food
   quality demands meticulous control across the entire production chain ,
   while adhering to best practices and legal regulations . however , beyond
   objective metrics for evaluating food quality , subjective elements derived
   from sensory analysis hold paramount importance . sensory analysis involves
   assessing food through the five senses : taste , sight , touch , smell , and
   hearing . it significantly influences food choices and dietary preferences .
   the process of preparing a sensory analysis panel is complex and includes
   panel leaders , tasters and sensory analysis experts , who are in charge of
   analyzing the panel results . therefore , the process can greatly benefit
   from the use of specialized tools . these tools must facilitate all phases
   of the panel , from selecting tasters and food samples to analyzing and
   visualizing results , and must be properly integrated to maximize the
   outcome of the sensory analysis . they must also help in appropriately
   weighing tasters input based on their experience and on the fly comparison
   against other tasters during the panel , ultimately culminating in the
   issuance of a food certification . to this aim , in this discussion paper we
   discuss a comprehensive suite of tools developed to manage sensory analysis
   panels . these tools are grounded on a shared conceptual data model and are
   specifically designed to evaluate food quality and generate a food
   certificate , ensuring that the highest standards are met throughout the
   food production and assessment process
DE agri-food 40; food certification; sensory analysis; smart food
ID food ingredients; current; agri-food 40; analysis method; analysis tools;
   data-driven; food certification; food quality; global food markets; high
   quality; smart food; food chemistry

---

UT 575
AR Namahoot CS, 2021, ICIC EXPRESS LETT, V15, P585, DOI
   10.24507/icicel.15.06.585
TI A recommender system supporting diet planning in hospitals (RES-DIP)
AU Namahoot CS; Brückner M; Nuntawong C
TC 2
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT
PY 2021
AB we show the results of a system prototype for clinical diet planning support
   . the system analyzes photos of patients plates before and after meals . the
   data analysis process uses the leftovers evaluation management ( lem ) based
   on a convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , which assesses the amount of
   food left on the plate ( or the level of consumption ) as a percentage and
   classifies each food item based on the meal plan . the consumption of food
   items is evaluated in steps of 1/4 , 1/2 , 3/4 , and 1 , which improves
   system performance . the results of the consumption analysis are used to
   guide diet planning in a flexible way . the ingredient selection process
   takes the data analysis from lem using an acceptable low amount of leftovers
   ( e . g . , < 50 % ) and compares ingredients with high nutritional values .
   this process is used to recommend the best ingredients and meals derived
   from the ingredient selection based on a low amount of leftovers and high
   nutritional values of food items to be added to the menu plan . a rule based
   component applies a food ontology with nutritional data and the local recipe
   database . this paper details the process design together with appropriate
   user interfaces to create a collaborative work environment for the clinical
   staff , dietitians , and the procurement department . the results show that
   with a dataset of 126 annotated food items on 504 images the proposed system
   yields an overall accuracy of 88.61 % for leftover analysis and 81.50 % for
   food item classification . 2021 icic international
DE cnn; decision support system; food leftovers analysis; planning and
   optimization process

---

UT 576
AR Tellechea Y, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14213770
TI Population-Level Analysis of Personalized Food Recommendation Using
   Reinforcement Learning
AU Tellechea Y; Arrojo M; Cejudo A; Martin C/1
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB this paper introduces an innovative methodology for optimizing
   recommendation strategies across different populations within the food
   industry . while previous approaches to recommending courses have overlooked
   cultural and age based preferences , our work demonstrates how understanding
   these differences can significantly enhance the attractiveness for consumers
   and create new opportunities for marketing . by simulating diverse
   populations using a fuzzy logic approach , based on individual
   characteristics such as age , gender , geographical area , and city size ,
   the study evaluates how recommendation algorithms perform within a generated
   menu database . results show that algorithms like
   stateactionrewardstateaction ( sarsa ) , multi armed bandit ( mab ) , and
   deep q network ( dqn ) exhibit varying levels of efficiency depending on the
   population . notably , the dqn improves accumulated reward over a random
   recommender by 71.60 % for ' foodies ' , 65.02 % for ' veggies ' , 63.46 %
   for ' spanish ' , and 8.89 % for ' seniors ' , while mab achieves similar
   performance with fewer resources . statistically significant differences ( p
   < 0.005 ) are found in the performance of the dqn between populations , with
   large effect sizes according to cliff s delta . these findings highlight
   recommender systems as an opportunity to navigate market demand , optimize
   supply chains , and reduce food waste . a better understanding of public
   preferences enables more effective alignment of supply and demand across the
   entire food supply chain . as a conclusion , while the dqn effectively
   captures target group preferences , the optimum recommendation strategy
   should be chosen by balancing algorithmic performance , computational
   efficiency , and the specific requirements of the food sector
DE consumer preferences; entire food supply chain; food recommender systems;
   waste reduction

---

UT 577
AR Toprak B, 2026, AGRIC, V16, DOI 10.3390/agriculture16080901
TI Enhancing Agri-Food Supply Chain Resilience: A FIT2 Gaussian Fuzzy FUCOM-QFD
   Framework for Designing Sustainable Controlled-Environment Hydroponic
   Agriculture Systems
AU Toprak B; Tolga AÇ
TC 0
SO AGRIC
PY 2026
AB vulnerabilities in conventional agri food supply chains ( cafscs )
   necessitate a shift toward resilient , localized production models . within
   the agri food 4.0 landscape , urban controlled environment hydroponic
   agriculture ( ceha ) systems address these challenges by shortening supply
   chains and mitigating climate induced breakdowns . however , structurally
   aligning triple bottom line ( tbl ) -oriented stakeholder needs with complex
   technical specifications remains a critical challenge in sustainable ceha
   system design . to address this challenge , the present study proposes a
   novel framework integrating the full consistency method ( fucom ) and
   quality function deployment ( qfd ) within a finite interval type 2 ( fit2 )
   gaussian fuzzy environment . this approach systematically translates tbl
   oriented priorities into precise engineering specifications , mapping 17
   stakeholder needs ( sns ) to 30 technical design requirements ( tdrs ) while
   capturing linguistic uncertainty and hesitation . the findings reveal a
   clear strategic focus on environmental and social sustainability .
   specifically , high product quality , food safety and traceability ,
   consumer acceptance , and minimization of environmental impacts emerge as
   the primary drivers of ceha adoption . the qfd translation identifies
   scalable iot infrastructure , sensor maintenance and calibration , and ai
   enabled decision support as the most critical tdrs . the framework s
   reliability and structural robustness were rigorously validated through
   comprehensive analyzes , including kendall s w test to confirm expert
   consensus , alongside a leave one out ( loo ) approach , weight
   perturbations , and a structural evaluation of tdr intercorrelations . these
   findings provide a scientifically grounded roadmap for designing sustainable
   , intelligent urban agricultural systems . ultimately , this framework
   offers actionable managerial implications for agribusiness stakeholders to
   bridge strategic tbl oriented goals with practical engineering ,
   significantly enhancing agri food supply chain resilience
DE agri-food 40; agri-food supply chain resilience; controlled-environment
   hydroponic agriculture ( ceha ); digital technologies; fit2 gaussian fuzzy
   sets; full consistency method ( fucom ); house of quality ( hoq ); internet
   of things ( iot ); quality function deployment ( qfd ); triple bottom line (
   tbl )

---

UT 578
AR Chiu S-M, 2022, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P21, DOI 10.1145/3504006.3504010
TI A Fast, Interactive, Location-Based Food Recommendation Application
AU Chiu S-M; Chen Y-C/2; Liou Y-S; Lee C/2; Ying J-C; Loh C-H; Lin J-W
TC 2
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2022
AB the public is increasingly using social media to facilitate the selection
   dining options . most previous studies on this topic focused on the use of
   personal preferences to generate recommendations . few studies considered (
   1 ) the common preferences of multiple users in a social network or ( 2 )
   the geographic location of the establishments . in this study , we developed
   an interactive , location based food recommendation application , which
   records the users favorites , previous search history , and personal
   information . the proposed system is convenient to use and highly effective
   in identifying suitable candidate restaurants
DE food recommendation system; information systems; mobile application
ID recommender systems; social networking ( online ); food recommendation
   system; geographic location; history informations; location-based; mobile
   applications; multiple user; personal preferences; public is; search
   history; social media; location

---

UT 579
AR Smitha KS, 2025, PROC INT CONF ADV ENG COMPUT TECHNOL SUSTAIN DEV AECTSD,
   DOI 10.1109/AECTSD65988.2025.11411513
TI Food Recommendation System using Hypergraph Attention Neural Network based
   on User Rating
AU Smitha KS; Sudhamathy G
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF ADV ENG COMPUT TECHNOL SUSTAIN DEV AECTSD
PY 2025
AB systems that recommend food have become popular nowadays because of the rise
   of online food service platforms . one important resource for these services
   is user ratings . additionally , the unhealthy meal advice may cause serious
   risks to users health . thus , this research proposes a novel approach of
   hypergraph attention neural network ( hgann ) for the food recommendation
   system . primarily , this research considers the two standard food
   recommendation datasets , such as allrecipes . com and food . com , to
   validate the efficacy of the proposed method . then , the preprocessing
   methods such as stemming , removal of stop words , tokenization , and
   lemmatisation are used to enhance the quality of data . then , the proposed
   framework is partitioned into binary categories : time based collaborative
   clustering and food ingredients assisted rating prediction . the
   experimental findings illustrate that the suggested method obtains a higher
   precision of 0.0884 and 0.0923 at a recommendation level of 10 on the
   datasets food . com and allrecipes , respectively , as compared to the user
   interests aware food recommender system ( uifrs han ) [ 11 ]
DE food recommendation system; food-ingredients-assisted prediction rating;
   hypergraph attention neural network; time-based collaborative clustering;
   user ratings
ID distributed computer systems; food additives; food ingredients; online
   systems; recommender systems; collaborative clustering; food ingredients;
   food recommendation system; food-ingredient-assisted prediction rating;
   hyper graph; hypergraph attention neural network; neural networks; time-
   based; time-based collaborative clustering; user rating; health risks

---

UT 580
AR Lang R, 2026, ICIC EXPRESS LETT, V20, P591, DOI 10.24507/icicel.20.06.591
TI ONTOLOGY-BASED FOOD RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TOURISTS EXPLORING AND NAVIGATING
   CAMBODIAN CUISINE
AU Lang R; Namahoot CS
TC 0
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT
PY 2026
AB in an age of globalization and different nutritional needs , preserving and
   promoting cultures through cuisine is becoming increasingly significant .
   the research aims to develop a comprehensive ontology for cambodian food
   that classifies traditional recipes according to information about
   ingredients , food categories , nutrients , and allergies . semantic web
   technologies , such as the web ontology language ( owl ) , the sparql
   protocol , and the rdf query language ( sparql ) , are applied to
   translating cambodian menu items into english and thai in real time .
   additionally , this ontology facilitates the detection of allergens and
   provides personalized dietary recommendations for tourists . food ontologies
   are emphasized as being crucial for preserving culinary traditions ,
   managing dietary restrictions , and enhancing eating situations for
   individuals who have specific dietary needs . the ontology is additionally
   employed as the foundation for a web application designed to help tourists
   navigate cambodian cuisine more in a secure way . a semantic approach
   enhances the accessibility of traditional cambodian cuisine . this study
   advances the subject of food ontology by demonstrating the potential of
   ontology driven technology in solving cultural and dietary issues . 2026 ,
   icic international
DE allergen identification; cambodian cuisine; food ontology; semantic web;
   traditional cambodia dish

---

UT 581
AR Akshay PM, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V5588 LNNS, P329, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-1918-4_23
TI Ingredient Alchemist: Enhancing Recipe Recommendation Systems Through
   Intelligent Apriori Algorithm
AU Akshay PM; Josyula AR; Fardeen SY; Golla H; Parvathy R
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB the ingredient alchemist app offers a novel solution for discovering recipes
   based on available ingredients , enhancing culinary experiences . utilizing
   the latest technologies , the application features a nextjs framework that
   offers server side rendering for a seamless user interface during ingredient
   selection and recipe viewing . along with an easy to use user interface ,
   the app incorporates voice input for entering ingredients via speech
   recognition and dietary restrictions such as calorie limit , enhancing
   accessibility and user engagement . the backend employs python web scraping
   to gather recipe data from verified websites , which is stored in a database
   for efficient retrieval . the program utilizes the apriori algorithm
   integrated with the fci algorithm for enhanced efficiency and reduced
   computational time to map user selected ingredients to relevant recipes .
   moreover , integration with a vector database improves search accuracy by
   considering variations in ingredient descriptions and allows recipe matching
   based on the quantity of the ingredients . by combining these technologies ,
   the ingredient alchemist app enables users to explore diverse recipes
   tailored to their available ingredients , fostering culinary creativity and
   supporting informed food choices
DE aprori; fast closed itemsets; pruning; vector database
ID computational efficiency; database systems; food chemistry; food
   ingredients; learning algorithms; recommender systems; search engines; user
   interfaces; apriori algorithms; aprori; closed itemsets; fast closed
   itemset; latest technology; novel solutions; pruning; server sides; user
   engagement; vector database; speech recognition

---

UT 582
AR Xing T/1, 2024, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1067 LNNS, P102, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-66431-1_7
TI RecipeRadar: An AI-Powered Recipe Recommendation System
AU Xing T/1; Gao J/4
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2024
AB this paper presents the development of an advanced recipe recommendation
   system powered by natural language processing ( nlp ) . to address the
   challenges posed by the overwhelming abundance of online recipes , this
   system provides personalized recipe suggestions based on user inputs ,
   dietary preferences , and ingredient restrictions . the core of the system
   is a multi input neural network model that processes and categorizes recipes
   using various textual inputs such as ingredients , recipe names , and
   descriptions . the model adeptly handles multi label classification and
   multi input data , two primary challenges in the domain of digital
   gastronomy . extensive data preprocessing , including text normalization ,
   tokenization , and vectorization , was conducted to prepare the dataset
   sourced from kaggle . the model s performance was rigorously evaluated
   through training and validation accuracy metrics , displaying its capability
   to categorize and recommend recipes effectively . the system s potential
   applications span from personal cooking assistance to professional culinary
   platforms , highlighting its significance in enhancing digital culinary
   experiences . future work includes expanding the dataset for greater
   diversity , integrating models that are more complex for improved nlp , and
   developing a user centric mobile application . this study contributes to the
   growing field of ai in gastronomy , demonstrating the practical application
   of machine learning in everyday life domains
DE chatbot; machine learning; multi-input neural networks; recipe
   recommendation
ID classification ( of information ); learning algorithms; machine learning;
   natural language processing systems; recommender systems; chatbots; language
   processing; machine learning; multi-input neural network; multi-input;
   natural languages; neural network model; neural networks; recipe
   recommendation; user input; neural network models

---

UT 583
AR Akilandeswari T, 2026, PROC INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT ELECTRON SYST ICCCES,
   P2131, DOI 10.1109/ICCCES62661.2026.11436669
TI Personalized Recipe Recommendation System
AU Akilandeswari T; Pradeep K; Naidu MP; Naidu NY; Manohar N
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT ELECTRON SYST ICCCES
PY 2026
AB this project presents a personalized website designed to help browse for new
   and unique healthy meals based on an individual s eating habits and style .
   contrary to the usual recipe recommendation tools , the proposed framework
   employs nlp techniques , along with learning algorithms , thus studying
   context and providing nutrition based and holistic recommendations . fast
   retrieval is done through a baseline tf idf with cosine similarity , and
   deeper semantic meaning is acquired through bert embeddings on the recipe s
   name , ingredients , and cooking steps for accuracy in recommendations .
   personalized nutrition is made through applying the harris benedict formula
   to estimate calorie needs based on user profiles for diet aware planning .
   secure cloud , through the backend , handles authentication and data
   management while the streamlined biomedical tool allows effortless searching
   , filtering , and nutrition tracking . the system is deployed on streamlit
   and vercel for universal real time access . the analysis indicates that
   semantic embeddings significantly outperform models based on keywords .
   calorie based recommendations add real value to the users for improving and
   maintaining well being . planned future work consists of collaborative
   filtering , graph , and mobile app advanced for refining usability and
   personalization through neural networks
DE dietary recommendation system; ingredient matching; neural collaborative
   filtering ( ncf ); personalized recipe recommendation
ID biomedical engineering; embeddings; food ingredients; nutrition; recommender
   systems; semantics; cosine similarity; dietary recommendation system; eating
   habits; embeddings; fast retrievals; healthy meals; ingredient matching;
   matchings; neural collaborative filtering; personalized recipe
   recommendation; collaborative filtering

---

UT 584
AR Zhou J/1, 2024, PROCESS MANAG, V61, DOI 10.1016/j.ipm.2024.103684
TI Flavor analysis and region prediction of Chinese dishes based on food
   pairing
AU Zhou J/1; Xin X; Li W; Ding H/1; Yu S/2; Cui X/1
TC 14
SO PROCESS MANAG
PY 2024
AB there are thirty four provincial administrative regions in china , and each
   region possesses its own distinct food culture . however , existing studies
   on flavor based research often treat chinese dishes from various regions as
   a single entity , resulting in biases when examining regional distinctions
   and the variety of recipes . to explore the potential correlation between
   food ingredients and regions , this paper performs flavor analysis and
   region prediction for chinese typical dishes . a new dataset including 1534
   recipes combined with a compound ingredient list to construct a compound
   ingredient recipe network . the results indicate that in terms of food
   ingredient selection , hainan shows the highest degree of flavor compound
   sharing , while shanghai does the lowest . while all the regions studied
   tend to exhibit negative food pairing according to the food pairing
   hypothesis , a region with a high degree of flavor sharing is more able to
   become prominent representation of the corresponding flavor branch through
   the analysis of representative ingredients . across the 14 regions studied ,
   the frequency of ingredient usage within a region plays a crucial role in
   maintaining its distinct flavor profile . concerning the individual
   contributions of ingredients to flavor compound sharing , the positive
   contributions are linked to rice and natural spices , including welsh onion
   , ginger , and garlic , while the negative contributions are primarily
   associated with flour , pork , and traditional chinese condiments such as
   soy sauce , cooking wine , and grain vinegar . multiple deep learning
   experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of combining ingredient and flavor
   information to region prediction for recipes
DE chinese recipes; classification; computational gastronomy; data mining;
   machine learning
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; flavor compounds;
   forecasting; spice; chinese recipe; computational gastronomy; flavor
   profiles; flavor analysis; food ingredients; machine learning; region
   predictions; soy sauce; welsh onion; data mining

---

UT 585
AR Lakshmanarao A, 2026, PROC INT CONF INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICISS, P1522, DOI
   10.1109/ICISS67859.2026.11454009
TI Diet and Recipe Recommendation System Using Machine Learning and Deep
   Learning Models
AU Lakshmanarao A; Obulreddy G; Priya VML; Ganesh VKV; Jayaram M
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICISS
PY 2026
AB this research presents an enhanced diet recommendation framework that
   integrates traditional machine learning , ensemble learning , and deep
   learning models to generate accurate and personalized meal suggestions . the
   system analyzes nutritional features such as fat , carbohydrate , protein ,
   cholesterol , and saturated fat content to predict suitable food categories
   aligned with individual health goals . the dataset consists of diverse food
   items with detailed nutrient information and user specific parameters
   including bmi , age , and dietary preferences . initial experiments using
   traditional classifiersdecision tree , k nearest neighbors , and random
   forestachieved accuracies of 86.89 % , 89.08 % , and 93.00 % , respectively
   , confirming the significance of macronutrient features in dietary
   prediction . to further improve performance , support vector machine and
   extra trees classifiers were implemented , followed by ensemble models such
   as stacking and weighted voting , which combined the strengths of multiple
   learners for improved generalization . finally , deep learning architectures
   including a multilayer perceptron ( dnn ) , tabnet , and an autoencoder
   based model were explored to capture higher order feature interactions
   within the nutritional data . experimental results demonstrated that the
   ensemble and deep learning frameworks outperformed individual models ,
   achieving higher accuracy and balanced precision recall tradeoffs . the
   proposed hybrid approach effectively combines interpretability , scalability
   , and predictive strength , establishing a robust foundation for intelligent
   diet recommendation and personalized nutrition systems
DE autoencoder; diet recommendation; machine learning; multilayer perceptron
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; forestry; multilayers;
   nearest neighbor search; nutrients; nutrition; recommender systems; support
   vector machines; auto encoders; diet recommendation; ensemble learning; fat
   contents; improve performance; learning models; machine learning;
   multilayers perceptrons; nearest-neighbour; saturated fats; learning systems

---

UT 586
AR Marshall J, 2022, ACM TRANS COMPUT HEAL, V3, DOI 10.1145/3494580
TI A Survey on Healthy Food Decision Influences Through Technological
   Innovations
AU Marshall J; Jimenez-Pazmino P; Metoyer R; Chawla NV
TC 12
SO ACM TRANS COMPUT HEAL
PY 2022
AB it is well known that unhealthy food consumption plays a significant role in
   dietary and lifestyle related diseases . therefore , it is important for
   researchers to examine methods that may encourage the consumer to consider
   healthier dietary and lifestyle habits as diseases such as obesity , heart
   disease , and high blood pressure remain a worldwide issue . one promising
   approach to influencing healthy dietary and lifestyle habits is food
   recommendation models that recommend food to users based on various factors
   such as health effects , nutrition , preferences , and daily habits .
   unfortunately , much of this work has focused on individual factors such as
   taste preferences and often neglects to understand other factors that
   influence our choices . additionally , the evaluation of technological
   approaches often lacks user studies in the context of intended use . in this
   systematic review of food choice technology , we focus on the factors that
   may influence food choices and how technology can play a role in supporting
   those choices . we also describe existing work , approaches , trends , and
   issues in current food choice technology and give advice for future work
   areas in this space
DE environment; food; food decisions; food properties; food recommendation
   systems; health; health applications; personal factors; technology
ID blood pressure; food supply; nutrition; environment; food consumption; food
   decision; food properties; food recommendation system; health application;
   healthy foods; personal factor; technological innovation; technology;
   article; cultural factor; decision making; environmental factor; food
   composition; food intake; health behavior; health survey; healthy diet;
   human; lifestyle; nutrition; priority journal; sensation; social network;
   social support; systematic review; technology; recommender systems

---

UT 587
AR Lezoche M, 2020, COMPUT IND, V117, DOI 10.1016/j.compind.2020.103187
TI Agri-food 4.0: A survey of the Supply Chains and Technologies for the Future
   Agriculture
AU Lezoche M; Panetto H; Kacprzyk J; Hernandez JE; Alemany Díaz MME
TC 726
SO COMPUT IND
PY 2020
AB the term ' agri food 4.0 ' is an analogy to the term ' industry 4.0 ' ,
   coming from the concept ' agriculture 4.0 ' . since the origins of the
   industrial revolution , where the steam engines started the concept of
   industry 1.0 and later the use of electricity upgraded the concept to
   industry 2.0 , the use of technologies generated a milestone in the industry
   revolution by addressing the industry 3.0 concept . hence , industry 4.0 ,
   it is about including and integrating the latest developments based on
   digital technologies as well as the interoperability process across them .
   this allows enterprises to transmit real time information in terms behavior
   and performance . therefore , the challenge is to maintain these complex
   networked structures efficiently linked and organized within the use of such
   technologies , especially to identify and satisfy supply chain stakeholders
   dynamic requirements . in this context , the agriculture domain is not an
   exception although it possesses some specialities depending from the domain
   . in fact , all agricultural machinery incorporates electronic controls and
   has entered to the digital age , enhancing their current performance . in
   addition , electronics , using sensors and drones , support the data
   collection of several agriculture key aspects , such as weather ,
   geographical spatialization , animals and crops behaviors , as well as the
   entire farm life cycle . however , the use of the right methods and
   methodologies for enhancing agriculture supply chains performance is still a
   challenge , thus the concept of industry 4.0 has evolved and adapted to
   agriculture 4.0 in order analyze the behaviors and performance in this
   specific domain . thus , the question mark on how agriculture 4.0 support a
   better supply chain decision making process , or how can help to save time
   to farmer to make effective decision based on objective data , remains open
   . therefore , in this survey , a review of more than hundred papers on new
   technologies and the new available supply chains methods are analyzed and
   contrasted to understand the future paths of the agri food domain
DE agri-food 40; agriculture 40; artificial intelligence; big data; blockchain;
   internet of things; supply chains
ID artificial intelligence; big data; blockchain; decision making; industry 40;
   internet of things; life cycle; supply chains; surveys; agri-food 40;
   current performance; decision making process; digital technologies;
   electronic controls; industrial revolutions; networked structures; real time
   information; agriculture

---

UT 588
AR Sadanandan SK, 2025, INT J INTELL ENG SYST, V18, P1, DOI
   10.22266/ijies2025.0731.01
TI Gradient Norm based Deep Neural Network for Food Recommender-System
AU Sadanandan SK; Ganapathisamy S
TC 0
SO INT J INTELL ENG SYST
PY 2025
AB food recommender ( fr ) system plays a crucial role in mitigating data
   overload problems by helping users identify choices based on relevance and
   their personalized information . however , systems face challenges when
   suggesting new food items or providing recommendations to new users . this
   research proposes a gradient norm based deep neural network ( gradn dnn )
   for recommending food items that greatly align with user preferences by
   effectively learning and understanding feature importance . this model helps
   identify and focus on significant features by leveraging the magnitude of
   gradients during backpropagation , while gradn dnn addresses sparsity by
   emphasizing impactful connections . initially , user similarity is assessed
   using the louvain method , which detects user groups and clusters them based
   on similarities between them for enabling precise recommendation . the user
   rating prediction utilizes a bipartite graph to effectively encode user item
   interactions , enabling better use of the graph clustering system . these
   two stages analyze user preferences efficiently , cluster the items , and
   improve the quality of food recommendations and user predictions . the
   proposed method achieves a better accuracy of 0.08975 on the allrecipes .
   com dataset compared to existing methods , such as the heterogeneous
   attention network based user interests aware fr system ( uifrs ha ) . this
   article is licensed under a creative commons attribution sharealike 4.0
   international license . license details :
DE bipartite graph; food recommender; gradient norm based deep neural network;
   heterogeneous attention network; louvain method

---

UT 589
AR Pecune F, 2020, CEUR WORK PROC, V2684, P15
TI A recommender system for healthy and personalized recipe recommendations
AU Pecune F; Callebert L; Marsella S
TC 38
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2020
AB unhealthy eating behavior is a serious public health issue with massive
   repercussions on an individual s health . one potential solution to this
   problem is to help people change their eating behavior by developing systems
   able to recommend healthy recipes that can influence eating behavior . one
   challenge for such systems is to deliver healthy recommendations that take
   into account users needs and preferences , while also informing users about
   the healthiness of the recommended recipes . in this paper , we investigate
   whether introducing a healthy bias in a recipe recommendation algorithm ,
   and displaying a healthy tag on recipe cards would have an influence on
   people s decision making . to that end , we build three different recipes
   recommender systems : one that recommends recipes matching users preferences
   , another one that only recommends healthy recipes , and a third one that
   recommends recipes that are both healthy and match users preferences . we
   evaluate these three systems through a user study in which we asked
   participants online to select from a list of recipes the ones they like the
   most . 2020 copyright for the individual papers remains with the authors .
   use permitted under creative commons license attribution 4.0 international (
   cc by 4.0 ) .
DE collaborative filtering; food recommender system; healthcare
ID behavioral research; decision making; health; recommender systems; eating
   behavior; public health issues; recommendation algorithms; user study;
   online systems

---

UT 590
AR Li X/2, 2018, PSYCHIATRY, V9, DOI 10.3389/fpsyt.2018.00415
TI Application of intelligent recommendation techniques for consumers' food
   choices in restaurants
AU Li X/2; Jia W; Yang Z/1; Li Y/4; Yuan D; Zhang H; Sun M
TC 27
SO PSYCHIATRY
PY 2018
AB currently , there has been a new trend in applying modern robotics ,
   information technology , and artificial intelligence to restaurants for
   improvements of food service , cost effectiveness , and customer
   satisfaction . as robots replace humans to serve food , there is a clear
   need for robotic servers to help consumers select foods from a menu that
   satisfies their preferences such as taste and nutrition . however ,
   currently , little is known about how eating behaviors drive food choices ,
   and it is often difficult for consumers to make choices from a variety of
   foods offered by the typical restaurant , even with the assistance from a
   human server . in this paper , we conduct an exploratory study on an
   intelligent food choice method that recommends dishes by predicting
   individual s dietary preference , including ingredients , types of spices ,
   price , etc . a multi attribute relation matrix tri factorization ( marmtf )
   technique is developed for a relation driven food recommendation system .
   first , the user s ordering history and their rating scores of the foods in
   the menu are gathered and represented by a user dish rating matrix . next ,
   the attribute relations of the ingredients , spicy level , and price of each
   food choice are extracted to construct a group of the relation matrices .
   then , these matrices are integrated into a large block matrix . in the next
   step , a matrix tri factorization algorithm is employed to decompose the
   block matrix and fuse the complex relationships into matrix factors .
   further , a set of approximation block matrices are constructed and the
   predicted food rating matrix is generated . finally , the foods ( dishes )
   with sufficiently high preference scores are recommended to the consumers .
   our experiments demonstrate that the marmtf technique can provide effective
   dish recommendation for customers . our system significantly simplifies the
   daunting task of making food choices and has a great potential in providing
   intelligent and professionally trained non human waiters and waitresses for
   employment by future restaurants . 2018 li , jia , yang , li , yuan , zhang
   and sun .
DE consumer preference; eating behaviors; food choice; food recommendation
   system; food attributes; matrix tri-factorization; nonhuman waiter/waitress;
   robotic restaurant
ID article; consumer; decomposition; diet; employment; exploratory research;
   feeding behavior; human; restaurant; spice

---

UT 591
AR Al-Hubaishi M, 2024, IEEE INT CONF CONTROL SYST COMPUT ENG ICCSCE - PROC,
   P316, DOI 10.1109/ICCSCE61582.2024.10696536
TI Personalized Food Recommendations: A Machine Learning Model for Enhanced
   Dining Choices
AU Al-Hubaishi M; Ali MAM; Tahir NM
TC 2
SO IEEE INT CONF CONTROL SYST COMPUT ENG ICCSCE - PROC
PY 2024
AB this research introduces an innovative approach to enhance dining
   experiences through a personalized meal suggestion system . our method
   leverages decision tree based machine learning to predict user preferences
   by analyzing various attributes . the aim is to assist individuals in making
   optimal food choices at restaurants , thereby enriching their culinary
   journey . qr codes are integrated into an android restaurant application ,
   facilitating convenient access to the food menu . user inquiries are
   efficiently managed through a mysql database accessible across multiple
   platforms , including a java gui , an android app , and a dedicated website
   catering to both user and administrator roles
DE decision tree classifier; machine learning; market research; qr codes
ID contrastive learning; food chemistry; decision tree classifiers; dining
   experience; innovative approaches; machine learning models; machine
   learning; market researches; mysql database; qr codes; tree-based; user
   preferences; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 592
AR Pandey NK, 2023, INT CONF SYST COMPUT NETWORKS ISCON, DOI
   10.1109/ISCON57294.2023.10112059
TI Machine Learning based Food Demand Estimation for Restaurants
AU Pandey NK; Mishra AK; Kumar V/2; Kumar A/7; Diwakar M; Tripathi N
TC 12
SO INT CONF SYST COMPUT NETWORKS ISCON
PY 2023
AB the food industry is critically depending on the accurate forecasting , wide
   business diversity and cutting edge competence . a wide range of items are
   included in the stocks . some require particular storage conditions , while
   others are fast perishable , hence its study serves as the foundation for
   developing an ideal business model . a food demand forecasting problem is
   explored in the project , and a machine learning technique is employed as a
   forecasting tool . the demand for various food products at various places is
   to be projected for the following weeks using a machine learning approach
   for discovering recurring patterns inherent in data by learning data
   repeatedly . some restaurants in a meal delivery network are in high demand
   . so that restaurant managers may plan optimal food ingredient storage for
   proper customer service and waste reduction .
DE gradient regressor; machine learning; random forest
ID digital storage; food storage; forecasting; forestry; machine learning;
   random forests; business models; cutting edges; demand estimation; demand
   forecasting; food demand; food industries; gradient regressor; machine
   learning; random forests; storage condition; food products

---

UT 593
AR Shankar Ch, 2024, PROC INT CONF DATA INTELL COGN INFORMATICS ICDICI, P293,
   DOI 10.1109/ICDICI62993.2024.10810770
TI Blockchain and the Internet of Things (IoT): A Synergistic Approach to Smart
   Food Supply Chains
AU Shankar Ch; Sahyaja Ch; Reddy VVN; Ramesh B
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF DATA INTELL COGN INFORMATICS ICDICI
PY 2024
AB this study investigates the domain of advanced technologies and their
   appropriation to resolve challenges related to the supply chain . to be more
   specific , the lessons learned from two case studies of applying technology
   to enhance supply chain efficiency are oliva verde and avocados global . the
   former company had faced product adulteration and contamination that
   endangered customers health . by leveraging blockchain technology , it
   incorporated unique digital fingerprints for each bottle to ensure full
   transparency , minimum fraud , and efficient logistics . the described
   solution was not without its downsides , including the difficulty of
   consolidating dispersed data and the challenges of system wide scalability .
   in the same way , avocados global has employed a supply chain with recurrent
   temperature check ups and control , live tracking , and predictive analysis
   to address the issue of its products perishability and poor quality . while
   this technology has helped reduce waste , improve products quality , and
   overall facilitate supply chain management , the investment and
   organizational changes required from the business were drastic . in
   conclusion , both companies have successfully overcome substantial economic
   and organizational challenges , developing unique and highly functional
   technological solutions that have enhanced their supply chain efficiency and
   marketability . at the same time , the study makes it evident that the
   systematic analysis of primary and secondary data , along with adopting the
   most advanced technologies and partnering with other market players , could
   eliminate most recurring challenges thus , the topic of future research
   should be best practices and technological solutions to mitigate current
   challenges
DE blockchain; food safety; food supply chains; internet of things ( iot );
   supply chain management
ID advanced technology; blockchain; case-studies; chain management; digital
   fingerprint; food supply chain; food safety; internet of thing; supply chain
   efficiency; technological solution; blockchain

---

UT 594
AR Panda SK, 2023, IEEE ACCESS, V11, P42679, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3266275
TI Time Series Forecasting and Modeling of Food Demand Supply Chain Based on
   Regressors Analysis
AU Panda SK; Mohanty SN
TC 109
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2023
AB accurate demand forecasting has become extremely important , particularly in
   the food industry , because many products have a short shelf life , and
   improper inventory management can result in significant waste and loss for
   the company . several machine learning and deep learning techniques recently
   showed substantial improvements when handling time dependent data . this
   paper takes the food demand forecasting dataset released by genpact ,
   compares the effect of various factors on demand , extracts the
   characteristic features with possible influence , and proposes a comparative
   study of seven regressors to forecast the number of orders . in this study ,
   we used random forest regressor , gradient boosting regressor ( gbr ) ,
   light gradient boosting machine regressor ( lightgbm ) , extreme gradient
   boosting regressor ( xgboost ) , cat boost regressor , long short term
   memory ( lstm ) , bidirectional lstm ( bilstm ) in particular . the results
   demonstrate the potential of deep learning models in forecasting and
   highlight the superiority of lstm over other algorithms . the root mean
   squared log error ( rmsle ) , root mean square error ( rmse ) , mean average
   percentage error ( mape ) , and mean average error ( mae ) reach 0.28 ,
   18.83 , 6.56 % , and 14.18 , respectively
DE deep learning; demand forecasting; machine learning; time series analysis
ID adaptive boosting; big data; data handling; forestry; inventory control;
   long short-term memory; supply chains; time series analysis; waste
   management; boosting; deep learning; demand forecasting; gradient boosting;
   machine learning; predictive models; time series analysis; forecasting

---

UT 595
AR Kokate VS, 2025, PROC INT CONF INTELL INNOV TECHNOL COMPUT ELECTR ELECTRON
   IITCEE, DOI 10.1109/IITCEE64140.2025.10915438
TI Cook Smart-An Intelligent Recipe Recommendation System
AU Kokate VS; Kunde YB; Patil VP; Futane P; Dedgaonkar S; Kodmelwar M
TC 3
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL INNOV TECHNOL COMPUT ELECTR ELECTRON IITCEE
PY 2025
AB cook smart platform offers highly sophisticated personalized diet
   recommendations powered with the help of individualized nutrition profiles
   for optimal digestion based on dietary preferences , restrictions or medical
   conditions . once the user provides information in terms of weight , height
   , dietary restrictions and if you are diabetic or hypertensive then
   cooksmart uses nlp for all this detail to happen also integrate machine
   learning models , after which our target to calculate a set value that must
   be used later , whether it predicts your calorie intake . according to the
   information it displays some custommade recipe suggestions and diet plan
   which relate with a particular health goal such as weight loss or gain ,
   fitness enhancement in addition to prohibition into certain kind of food
   stuffs . html / css was used to build a simple ui interface when designing
   the front end of this platform , while in addition python and flask based
   backends that are responsible for data control processing with backend
   business logic . this architecture renders a user experience dynamic in
   nature that is engine responsive to be fast and lightweight as it maintains
   communication with congregated server frontend ui back end crud operations .
   an interactive , real time engaging chatbot in the app offers customized
   meal options and answers nutritional queries . in addition to suggesting
   meals , cooksmartiap also encourages new users save your favoriterecipes and
   record your eating history as you set up your individual nutrition goals .
   in this paper , we describe the design and architecture of cooksmart that
   enables personalized meal recommendations with nutritional constraints .
   there is also room for the platform to scale with more complex ai models and
   an expanded recipe library geared toward individual nutritional requirements
   as personal nutrition needs gain in popularity in a health conscious world
DE chatbot interaction; dietary preferences; flask; food recommendation system;
   knn; machine learning; personalized nutrition; recipe recommendation
ID chatbot interaction; chatbots; dietary preference; flask; food
   recommendation system; knn; machine learning; personalized nutrition; recipe
   recommendation; smart platform; bottles

---

UT 596
AR Steliotes E, 2025, CEUR WORK PROC, V4194
TI Integrated Ontological Framework for Food Waste Prevention, Recovery, and
   Valorization
AU Steliotes E; Lawson R; Lange M
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2025
AB food loss and waste ( flw ) is a global sustainability challenge spanning
   the food supply chain from farm to fork . we present an integrated
   ontological framework that defines and interrelates top level classes for
   food waste generation , prevention , recovery , and valorization within a
   basic formal ontology ( bfo ) alignment . by reusing and extending open
   biological and biomedical ontology ( obo ) foundry ontologies including
   foodon for food materials , envo for environmental / waste terms , iao for
   information artifacts , and ro for standard relations as well as
   sustainability focused ontologies ( sco , sdgio , sumso , sdc ) , the
   framework ensures semantic interoperability across domains . this ontology
   addresses known gaps in existing flw ontologies ( e . g . lack of prevention
   / recovery concepts , limited process modeling , poor cross domain term
   alignment ) . we incorporate domain knowledge from the upcycled food
   standard ( 2025 ) , fao , usda , and the food loss and waste accounting
   standard to ground the ontology in real world definitions and reporting
   practices . the result is a high level ontology that supports cross sector
   traceability and sustainability reporting , using key object properties like
   haswastestream , derivedfrom , and eligibleforcertification to model waste
   flows , derivation of upcycled products , and certification eligibility . we
   show how this semantic framework can support ai , large language models (
   llms ) , and linked data applications by providing a common , machine
   readable representation of food waste concepts . an excerpt of the ontology
   s turtle ( ttl ) code is provided to illustrate the structure
DE food loss and waste; food ontologies; waste ontologies
ID food supply; food waste; linked data; loss prevention; modeling languages;
   ontology; supply chains; food loss; food ontology; food waste; global
   sustainability; ontological frameworks; ontologys; waste ontology; waste
   prevention; waste recoveries; waste valorizations; semantics

---

UT 597
AR Chen J/5, 2021, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12731 LNCS, P392, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-77385-4_23
TI Augmenting Ontology Alignment by Semantic Embedding and Distant Supervision
AU Chen J/5; Jiménez-Ruiz E; Horrocks I; Antonyrajah D; Hadian A; Lee J/5
TC 54
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2021
AB ontology alignment plays a critical role in knowledge integration and has
   been widely investigated in the past decades . state of the art systems ,
   however , still have considerable room for performance improvement
   especially in dealing with new ( industrial ) alignment tasks . in this
   paper we present a machine learning based extension to traditional ontology
   alignment systems , using distant supervision for training , ontology
   embedding and siamese neural networks for incorporating richer semantics .
   we have used the extension together with traditional systems such as logmap
   and aml to align two food ontologies , helis and foodon , and we found that
   the extension recalls many additional valid mappings and also avoids some
   false positive mappings . this is also verified by an evaluation on
   alignment tasks from the oaei conference track
DE distant supervision; ontology alignment; semantic embedding; siamese neural
   network
ID alignment; embeddings; lithium compounds; mapping; ontology; turing
   machines; false positive; food ontology; knowledge integration; log-map;
   ontology alignment; semantic embedding; state of the art system; traditional
   systems; semantic web

---

UT 598
AR Nhung NTH, 2024, INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG IC3K - PROC,
   V1, P113, DOI 10.5220/0013014000003838
TI Approaches for Extending Recommendation Models for Food Choices in Meals
AU Nhung NTH; Nguyen DK; Hong TG; Vu TMH
TC 0
SO INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG IC3K - PROC
PY 2024
AB in this paper , we propose food recommender systems based on users
   historical food choices . their advantage lies in providing personalized
   food suggestions for each user considering each meal . these systems are
   developed using two popular recommendation principles : neighbor based and
   latent factor based . in the neighbor based model , the system aggregates
   the food choices of neighboring users to recommend food choices for the
   active user during the considered meal . in contrast , the latent factor
   based model constructs and optimizes an objective function to learn positive
   representations of users , foods , and meals . in this new space ,
   predicting users food choices during meals becomes straightforward .
   experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed
   models in specific cases . however , in a global statistical comparison ,
   the latent factor based model has proven to be more effective than the
   neighbor based model . 2024 by scitepress science and technology
   publications , lda .
DE food recommender system; latent factor-based recommendation; neighbor-based
   recommendation
ID food chemistry; factor-based model; food recommender system; latent factor;
   latent factor-based recommendation; learn+; modeling construct; neighbor-
   based recommendation; objective functions; statistical comparisons; food
   ingredients

---

UT 599
AR Bundasak S, 2025, ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL, V16, P269, DOI
   10.24507/icicelb.16.03.269
TI INNOVATIVE HYBRID METHODOLOGY FOR A HEALTH-ORIENTED FOOD RECOMMENDATION
   SYSTEM
AU Bundasak S; Somdee T; Jareanpon C
TC 0
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL
PY 2025
AB this research project focuses on developing a food recommendation system
   that is beneficial to users through a combination of data filtering and food
   content analysis that can be used effectively to support online businesses
   and services by recommending products or services that match users needs and
   preferences . the results indicated that the system could recommend suitable
   new items , with a root mean square error value of 0.75 for predicting the
   liking score for new food items . this improvement can ensure accuracy and
   appropriateness regarding the recommended food items . in addition , it
   enhances the accuracy and variety of healthy food recommendations for users
   in cases where a new menu is not properly recommended . therefore , this
   research is important in improving and increasing the efficiency of a food
   recommendation system , while also recommending food items correctly that
   are suitable for use and solve food requirement problems . 2025 , icic
   international
DE cold start problem; collaborative filtering; food recommendation system;
   hybrid approach; singular value decomposition

---

UT 600
AR Kul S, 2022, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V393, P1023, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-94191-8_83
TI A Smart Recipe Recommendation System Based on Image Processing and Deep
   Learning
AU Kul S; Sayar A
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2022
AB while technology facilitates our lives , it also allows us to lead a quality
   , efficient energy and to do more productive work in less time . one of our
   basic needs that takes our time is to eat . one of the problems people face
   is , ' what can i cook today ? ' it is the question . the smart recipe
   suggestion system ( srss ) is a system that can make food recommendations to
   the person with the materials available . this system is designed as a
   mobile application , including the deep learning method , to answer people s
   questions during the day . this paper proposes an approach that recognizes
   the person s materials with image processing technology and presents the
   most suitable meal suggestions to be made with those materials . recipes are
   collected from web sites through rabbitmq . food items are captured from
   images by using object detection processes through deep learning . available
   food items are modeled as nosql and stored to mongodb document based
   databases . for the real world application firebase mobile cloud platform is
   used
DE deep learning; machine learning; nosql; object detection; object
   recognition; rabitmq; recipe suggestions

---

UT 601
AR Ada E, 2023, INT J MATH ENG MANAG SCI, V8, P374, DOI
   10.33889/IJMEMS.2023.8.3.022
TI Towards the Smart Sustainable and Circular Food Supply Chains through
   Digital Technologies
AU Ada E; Sezer MD; Kazancoglu Y; Khaleel R
TC 21
SO INT J MATH ENG MANAG SCI
PY 2023
AB food supply chain management has become a remarkable issue due to the
   increasing food waste caused by globalization and population growth . it is
   essential to gain understanding of the drivers of circular economy in food
   supply chains and investigate stimulating factors in the development of
   circular food supply chains . thus , this study conducted a systematic
   literature review from 2008 to 2020 , including an analysis of 137 articles
   performed on data to answer specific research questions regarding circular
   food supply chain drivers . drivers for transition to circular economy in
   food supply chains are presented in five main categories with 22 sub drivers
   . this research contributes to the existing literature by presenting a novel
   approach to digital transformation in smart food supply chains through the
   integration of industry 4.0 technologies . the findings present potential
   drivers of circular economy in food supply chains for digital transformation
   . this study also ensures operational efficiencies by digital technologies
   in food supply chains that can be beneficial for practitioners . 2023
   international journal of mathematical , engineering and management sciences
DE circular economy; digital transformation; food supply chain; industry 40
   technologies; smart supply chain
ID food supply; population statistics; supply chain management; waste
   management; circular economy; digital technologies; digital transformation;
   food supply chain; food waste; globalization; industry 40 technology;
   population growth; smart supply chain; systematic literature review;
   industry 40

---

UT 602
AR Caputo V, 2025, FOOD POLIC, V137, DOI 10.1016/j.foodpol.2025.103006
TI Evaluating policy and industry-based interventions for healthier online
   food-away-from-home choices: A scoping review
AU Caputo V; Sun J; Van Loo EJ
TC 3
SO FOOD POLIC
PY 2025
AB the rapid digital transformation of the food away from home ( fafh ) sector
   has redefined how consumers access and select meals . digital delivery
   platforms such as uber eats , deliveroo , and meituan have become
   influential market intermediaries , shaping the nutritional landscape of
   food environments and raising concerns about their healthfulness . this
   study reviews empirical evidence on policy based and industry led
   interventions aimed at improving dietary outcomes in digital fafh
   environments . following prisma guidelines and using machine
   learningassisted screening ( asreview ) , 37 peer reviewed studies were
   identified across four domains : nutritional labeling , fiscal measures ,
   food assistance programs , and digital nudges or decision support tools .
   findings indicate that although traditional food policy instruments designed
   for physical food environments can be adapted to digital contexts , their
   effects remain modest and context specific . industry led interventions ,
   such as menu reordering , healthier defaults , and real time basket feedback
   , show encouraging effects on meal quality and calorie reduction when
   integrated into online platform design . opportunities also exist to embed
   digital policies and personalized decision aids within platform interfaces ,
   providing scalable mechanisms for nutrition governance . yet regulatory
   ambiguity , limited transparency , and profit oriented design incentives
   constrain their reach . cross country disparities in market structure ,
   investment , and institutional capacity further restrict policy diffusion ,
   with most evidence drawn from high income economies . the review calls for
   governance frameworks that treat digital food delivery platforms not as
   passive outlets but as active infrastructures for public health policy
DE consumer food choices; delivery platforms; digital food environments;
   digital food supply chains; food away from home; food policy; industry-based
   interventions
ID electronic commerce; food policy; machine learning; technological
   development; technology adoption

---

UT 603
AR Aditya GM, 2021, GLOB CONF ADV TECHNOL GCAT, DOI
   10.1109/GCAT52182.2021.9587601
TI Machine Learning Based Platform and Recommendation System for Food Ordering
   Services within Premises
AU Aditya GM; Hoode A; Anvesh Rai K; Biradar G; Ajay Kumara MA; Manoj Kumar MV;
   Prashanth BS; Sneha HR; Shivadarshan SL
TC 10
SO GLOB CONF ADV TECHNOL GCAT
PY 2021
AB normally , the long queues and crowd can be seen at the canteens / hotels
   whenever there is a lunch break in an organization or within a campus . this
   paper proposes a solution for eliminating the queue system and introduces
   the facility to remotely place food orders . further , this paper proposes a
   real time food recommendation system to suggest the dishes to users based on
   their past orders . the solution has been implemented through a mobile
   application built using flutter . the mobile application has been empowered
   with a machine learning model for recommending the items that the user might
   like . the proposed method has been tested with 2 vendors catering to 60
   customers successfully . the accuracy of the recommendation has been
   satisfactory
DE food recommendation system; machine learning; matrix factorization;
   recommendation
ID machine learning; matrix factorization; mobile computing; application
   builds; food recommendation system; lunch breaks; machine learning models;
   machine learning; matrix factorizations; mobile applications; queue systems;
   real- time; recommendation; recommender systems

---

UT 604
AR Wilsenach J, 2025, CEUR WORK PROC, V4196, P210
TI Development of in-context methods with Large Language Models for statement
   validation: towards semi-automated ontology learning in novel biological
   contexts
AU Wilsenach J; Ahnert S
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2025
AB biological knowledge is often contextual , requiring domain specific
   expertise in order to determine the relative validity of a given statement ,
   resulting in ever more context specific ontologies . at the level of
   individual annotated entities the completeness of the annotational space is
   also contextual . for example , differences in both the number and depth of
   go annotations are evident between model and non model organisms . in the
   curation of domain specific ontologies , parts of other hierarchies are
   often borrowed from a variety of related ontological sources . learning
   which ontological statements can be imported from one context to another is
   therefore relevant to the goal of completing the ontological and
   annotational spaces and performing more accurate downstream analyzes in a
   given context . we explore the use of inferred probabilities from light
   weight gpt2-type large language models to determine the contextual relevance
   of statements . we show that context specific prompting can improve the
   ability of non fine tuned models to determine the correct direction in
   subtype relations for a simple taxonomy drawn from foodon , the edible food
   ontology . this ontology was tested because of it is mixture of in sample
   and out of sample terms . the resulting measure could be used to gage which
   statements are most contextually relevant when a model is appropriately
   prompted or fine tuned . through refining our neurosymbolic approach , we
   plan to provide a tool to guide investigators when deciding which
   ontological statements might plausibly be imported , such as from one
   species or cell line to another , and to identify possible areas for further
   study , where statements are least likely to hold . 2025 use permitted under
   creative commons license attribution 4.0 international ( cc by 4.0 ) .
DE large language models; machine learning; ontology comparison; ontology
   validation; statement validation
ID artificial intelligence; learning systems; domain-specific; in contexts;
   language model; large language model; machine learning; ontology comparison;
   ontology learning; ontology validations; ontologys; statement validation;
   ontology

---

UT 605
AR Maia R, 2018, LECT NOTES ENG COMPUT SCI, V2237, P349
TI Context-aware food recommendation system
AU Maia R; Ferreira JC
TC 17
SO LECT NOTES ENG COMPUT SCI
PY 2018
AB recommendation systems are commonly used in websites with large datasets ,
   frequently used in e commerce or multimedia streaming services . these
   systems effectively help users in the task of finding items of their
   interest , while also being helpful from the perspective of the service or
   product provider . however , successful applications to other domains are
   less common , and the number of personalized food recommendation systems is
   surprisingly small although this particular domain could benefit
   significantly from recommendation knowledge . this work proposes a context
   aware food recommendation system for well being care applications , using
   mobile devices , beacons , medical records and a recommender engine . users
   passing near a food place receives food recommendation based on available
   offers order by appropriate foods for everyone is health at the table in
   real time . we also use a new robust recipe recommendation method based on
   matrix factorization and feature engineering , both supported by contextual
   information and statistical aggregation of information from users and items
   . the results got from the application of this method to three heterogeneous
   datasets of recipe s user ratings , showed that gains are achieved regarding
   recommendation performance independently of the dataset size , the items
   textual properties or even the rating values distribution . 2018 newswood
   limited .
DE collaboration; context-aware; food; recommender system
ID electronic commerce; factorization; food products; large dataset; mhealth;
   multimedia services; collaboration; context-aware; contextual information;
   heterogeneous datasets; matrix factorizations; multimedia streaming
   services; recommendation methods; recommendation performance; recommender
   systems

---

UT 606
AR Virmani N, 2025, INT J LOGIST RES APPLIC, DOI 10.1080/13675567.2025.2514039
TI What drives the adoption of digital food supply chains?  assessing the
   intentions to adopt digital food supply chain: stimulus-organism-response
   framework
AU Virmani N; Sharma D; Tripathi PM; Raut RD; Kumar M/2
TC 1
SO INT J LOGIST RES APPLIC
PY 2025
AB in the present market landscape , digital technologies are expanding in
   every industry sector , including the food industry . digital food supply
   chain ( dfsc ) has emerged as pivotal to enhancing protection ,
   sustainability and reducing wastage . stimulus organism response ( sor )
   theory was used to assess multiple constructs , affecting the adoption of
   dfsc . the questionnaire was developed , and 331 responses were received .
   partial least square structural equation modeling ( pls sem ) was applied to
   investigate the hypotheses . the results yield new insights and novel
   contributions , explaining the significant relationship between
   technological advancements ( ta ) , government rules and regulations ( grr )
   , mimetic pressure ( mp ) , perceived benefits ( pb ) and market pressure (
   mkp ) with the attitude ( att ) to adopt dfsc . further , attitude
   positively impacts the intention to embrace digital transformation within
   the food industry . moreover , the moderating role of supply chain
   integration ( si ) and perceived risk ( pr ) is investigated in adopting a
   dfsc . the research findings will assist industry managers and practitioners
   in understanding various factors affecting the adoption of the dfsc
DE digital food supply chain ( dfsc ); intentions; intention; sor;
   sustainability; attitude

---

UT 607
AR Mahajan P, 2024, SN COMPUT SCI, V5, DOI 10.1007/s42979-023-02537-y
TI A Systematic Literature Review of Food Recommender Systems
AU Mahajan P; Kaur PD
TC 15
SO SN COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB the enormous variations in food choices and lifestyle in today s world have
   given rise to the demand of using recommender system as a suitable tool in
   making appropriate food choices . need for choosing nutritious food items is
   becoming important in today s modern lifestyle as people are getting
   indulged in eating unhealthy food and thus leading to miserable health
   status . many lifestyle related diseases , such as diabetes and obesity ,
   can also be reversed by proper diet . filtering techniques in recommender
   system use a dataset of items and user s preferences as input to discover a
   list of well judged items as suggestions . in light of the above said , this
   paper presents an exploratory study of the recommendation approaches and
   methods utilized for food and recipe recommendations in the past decade .
   for this purpose , several relevant papers published in the food domain from
   2006 to 2023 have been extensively studied . further , the research articles
   are categorized based on the filtering techniques , methods ,
   functionalities and data sources used by the researchers . a comparative
   study of the recommendation approaches revealed the advantages and
   disadvantages of different approaches . also , the paper emphasizes the
   importance of food recommendation techniques in health and nutrition
   management of an individual . the review highlights the need to further
   explore the implementation of recommender systems in the food industry .
   furthermore , the findings of this survey provide researchers with insights
   and future directions on recommender systems in the domain
DE food; food/recipe/menu recommender system; information retrieval; menu;
   recipe; recommender system

---

UT 608
AR Panwar M, 2024, INDONES J ELECTR ENG COMPUT SCI, V34, P620, DOI
   10.11591/ijeecs.v34.i1.pp620-629
TI An intelligent time aware food recommender system using support vector
   machine
AU Panwar M; Sharma A/2; Mahela OP; Khan B; Ali A
TC 1
SO INDONES J ELECTR ENG COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB this paper formulated a support vector machine powered time aware food
   recommender system ( svmtafrs ) to recommend healthy food for the customers
   . the rated food item incorporates the user preference ( up ) in terms of
   calories , nutrition factor , and all food contents required for a healthy
   diet . this also takes into account the user age , time of day and week day
   while predicting the food rating . the svmtafrs involves two steps for
   computation of user identity document ( uid ) and predicted food rating (
   pfr ) . uid is computed considering the customer age ( ca ) , up in terms of
   calories and suitable weight factors . pfr is computed considering the uid
   and time of day ( tod ) . pfr for week end day is computed by multiplying
   the pfr by week end multiplying factor ( wemf ) . support vector machine (
   svm ) is used for recommending the suitable healthy food for customer in
   terms of correct values of pfr . efficacy of pfr is tested in terms of mean
   absolute error ( mae ) and root mean squared error ( rmse ) . this is
   established that performance of the svmtafrs is superior compared to the
   rule based food recommender system ( rbfrs )
DE food recommender system; mean absolute error; predicted food rating; root
   mean square error; support vector machine; time-aware; user identity
   document

---

UT 609
AR Kumar S/2, 2023, PROC - IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN CONTROL NETW ICAC3N,
   P378, DOI 10.1109/ICAC3N60023.2023.10541768
TI Comparative study on post-workout meal recommender systems using machine
   learning algorithms
AU Kumar S/2; Sahani SK
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN CONTROL NETW ICAC3N
PY 2023
AB the abundance of options for post workout healthy meal recommendations can
   be overwhelming , it becomes crucial to streamline , prioritize , and
   effectively provide pertinent information . this is necessary to address the
   issue of information overload and the consequent development of unhealthy
   eating habits , which has become a significant concern for numerous internet
   users . the discipline of fitness and nutrition has recently seen an
   increased emphasis on post workout meal optimization to improve athletic
   performance and support muscle recovery . the post workout meal recommender
   systems described in this study use machine learning algorithms to offer
   individualized food recommendations . to provide precise and customized
   suggestions , the suggested methods include content based filtering ,
   collaboration based filtering , and a hybrid approach . the results of this
   study can be used to inform the development of food recommendation systems ,
   as well as to guide food businesses in making decisions about their
   offerings . diets with higher mean occurrence indicate that more people are
   interested in such diets after a workout . at the same time , macro
   nutrients with higher mean occurrence indicate what nutrients are popular
   after a workout among people with similar health routine . in the future ,
   it would be beneficial to expand the scope of this study to include a more
   diverse population , as well as to incorporate additional factors such as
   dietary restrictions and nutritional information
DE health; k-nearest neighbor; nutrients; recommendation; workout
ID learning algorithms; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; nutrients;
   recommender systems; sports; comparatives studies; eating habits; healthy
   meals; information overloads; internet users; k-near neighbor; machine
   learning algorithms; nearest-neighbour; recommendation; workout; nutrition

---

UT 610
AR BOPPANA V, 2025, J THEOR APPL TECHNOL, V103, P9671
TI QUANTUM-ENHANCED HYBRID XAI-LSTM FRAMEWORK FOR TELUGU RESTAURANT ANALYTICS
   AND RECOMMENDATION SYSTEMS
AU BOPPANA V; PRASAD S
TC 0
SO J THEOR APPL TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB this study examines the application of explainable artificial intelligence (
   xai ) methodologies in a quantum enhanced restaurant recommendation system
   designed for the evaluation of telugu reviews . our new framework uses the
   natural language toolkit ( nltk ) to process telugu language , the term
   frequency inverse document frequency ( tf idf ) feature vectorization method
   , quantum powered ordering points to identify the clustering structure (
   optics ) algorithms , and the long short term memory recurrent neural
   network ( lstm rnn ) architecture with 100-cycle iterations . it also uses
   the whale optimization method to improve performance . performance
   evaluation employs cosine , dice , and jaccard similarity metrics across
   spatial , temporal , daily , and user feedback dimensions . the results show
   great results , such as 99.85 % precision for telugu preprocessing with
   25,000 reviews and 99.76 % precision for 28,456 unique tokens . quantum
   enhanced feature extraction reached 97.89 % precision with 95.67 % dataset
   coverage . quantum lstm networks reached 93.45 % precision with 0.929
   f1-scores . optics clustering reached 91.23 % precision with 0.934 auc roc
   values , and whale optimization reached 92.34 % precision with 0.945 auc roc
   measurements . the integration of xai led to amazing improvements , raising
   the overall system s accuracy from 85.5 % to 95.6 % , the users confidence
   levels from 75.2 % to 92.3 % , and the ability to fix errors from 65.3 % to
   89.4 % . statistical analysis confirms the framework s exceptional efficacy
   in safeguarding telugu cultural elements while offering clear
   recommendations . this illustrates the considerable potential of quantum
   computing when integrated with explainable ai to create culturallysensitive
   , interpretable restaurant recommendation systems that propel multilingual
   recommendation research and lay the groundwork for future quantum enhanced
   xai studies
DE explainable artificial intelligence; quantum machine learning; restaurant
   recommendation system; telugu natural language processing

---

UT 611
AR Llerena L, 2017, WMSCI - WORLD MULTI-CONF SYST CYBERN INFORMATICS PROC, V2,
   P130
TI How to apply the user profile usability technique in the user modelling
   activity for an adaptive food recommendation system for people on special
   diets
AU Llerena L; Rodríguez N; Gómez-Abajo P; Castro JW
TC 1
SO WMSCI - WORLD MULTI-CONF SYST CYBERN INFORMATICS PROC
PY 2017
AB interest among software professionals in the possibility of adapting
   software to user requirements has grown as a result of the evolution of
   software analysis , design and implementation thinking and the growth in the
   number of software systems users . moving away from the traditional approach
   where the user has to settle for the options offered by software systems ,
   different factors , like user needs , aspirations , preferences , knowledge
   level , goals and other distinguishing features , have to be taken into
   account for this purpose . technically , this possibility is referred to as
   adaptiveness , and it requires user data . it is these data ( user model )
   that determine the adaptiveness conditions . our aim is to build a user
   model for adaptive systems applied to nutritional requirements , modeling
   user characteristics that affect their diets and help to improve their
   health . to build the user model , we apply the user profile usability
   technique . in order to validate our proposal , we analyze and design a
   preliminary prototype of an adaptive system capable of making food
   recommendations to satisfy specific user needs . this study revealed that
   diet is a propitious field for the development of adaptive systems and that
   user modeling is a good choice for design of this type of systems .
DE diets; human computer interaction; software engineering; usability
   techniques; user modeling; user profiling
ID computer software; cybernetics; human computer interaction; nutrition;
   software engineering; design and implementations; software analysis;
   traditional approaches; usability techniques; user characteristics; user
   modeling; user profiling; user requirements; adaptive systems

---

UT 612
AR Agapito G/1, 2018, COMPUT METHODS PROGRAMS BIOMED, V153, P93, DOI
   10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.10.014
TI DIETOS: A dietary recommender system for chronic diseases monitoring and
   management
AU Agapito G/1; Simeoni M; Calabrese B; Caré I; Lamprinoudi T/1; Guzzi PH;
   Pujia A; Fuiano G/1; Cannataro M
TC 109
SO COMPUT METHODS PROGRAMS BIOMED
PY 2018
AB background and objective use of mobile and web based applications for diet
   and weight management is currently increasing . however , the impact of
   known apps on clinical outcomes is not well characterized so far . moreover
   , availability of food recommender systems providing high quality
   nutritional advices to both healthy and diet related chronic diseases users
   is very limited . in addition , the potentiality of nutraceutical properties
   of typical regional foods for improving app utility has not been exerted to
   this end . we present dietos , a recommender system for the adaptive
   delivery of nutrition contents to improve the quality of life of both
   healthy subjects and patients with diet related chronic diseases . dietos
   provides highly specialized nutritional advices in different health
   conditions . methods dietos was projected to provide users with health
   profile and individual nutritional recommendation . health profiling was
   based on user answers to dynamic real time medical questionnaires .
   furthermore , dietos contains catalogs of typical foods from calabria , a
   southern italian region . several calabrian foods have been inserted because
   of their nutraceutical properties widely reported in several quality studies
   . dietos includes some well known methods for user profiling ( overlay
   profiling ) and content adaptation ( content selection ) coming from general
   purpose adaptive web systems . results dietos has been validated for
   usability for both patients and specialists and for assessing the
   correctness of the profiling and recommendation , by enrolling 20 chronic
   kidney disease ( ckd ) patients at the department of nephrology and dialysis
   , university hospital , catanzaro ( italy ) and 20 age matched healthy
   controls . recruited subjects were invited to register to dietos and answer
   to medical questions to determine their health status . based on our results
   , dietos has high specificity and sensitivity , allowing to determine a
   medical controlled user s health profile and to perform a fine grained
   recommendation that is better adapted to each user health status . the
   current version of dietos , available online at is not intended to be used
   by general users , but only for review purpose . conclusions dietos is a
   novel food recommender system for healthy people and individuals affected by
   diet related chronic diseases . the proposed system builds a users health
   profile and , accordingly , provides individualized nutritional
   recommendations , also with attention to food geographical origin
DE chronic diseases; chronic kidney diseases; food recommender system; foods
   database; health profile
ID chronic disease; diabetes mellitus; diet; humans; kidney failure chronic;
   mobile applications; monitoring physiologic; self care; diseases;
   recommender systems; surveys; websites; nutraceutical; adaptive delivery;
   chronic disease; chronic kidney disease; content adaptation; geographical
   origins; monitoring and management; web-based applications; weight
   management; adult; aged; article; body weight management; chronic kidney
   failure; clinical article; cohort analysis; controlled clinical trial;
   controlled study; dietary reference intake; female; health status; human;
   male; nutrient content; pilot study; publication; quality of life; register;
   sensitivity and specificity; very elderly; chronic disease; chronic kidney
   failure; diabetes mellitus; diet; diet therapy; mobile application;
   physiologic monitoring; self care; nutrition

---

UT 613
AR Rokicki M, 2016, UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P207, DOI
   10.1145/2930238.2930248
TI Plate and prejudice: Gender differences in online cooking
AU Rokicki M; Herder E; Kuśmierczyk T; Trattner C
TC 27
SO UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2016
AB historically , there have always been differences in how men and women cook
   or eat . the reasons for this gender divide have mostly gone in western
   culture , but still there is qualitative and anecdotal evidence that men
   prefer heftier food , that women take care of everyday cooking , and that
   men cook to impress . in this paper , we show that these differences can
   also quantitatively be observed in a large dataset of almost 200 thousand
   members of an online recipe community . further , we show that , using a set
   of 88 features , the gender of the cooks can be predicted with fairly good
   accuracy of 75 % , with preference for particular dishes , the use of spices
   and the use of kitchen utensils being the strongest predictors . finally ,
   we show the positive impact of our results on online food recipe recommender
   systems that take gender information into account . copyrights for
   components of this work owned by others than acm
DE classification; cooking; food recommender systems; gender differences;
   online food
ID classification ( of information ); online systems; recommender systems;
   social sciences; thermal processing ( foods ); anecdotal evidences; gender
   differences; large dataset; cooking

---

UT 614
AR Kayarga T, 2025, INT CONF DATA SCI BUS SYST ICDSBS, DOI
   10.1109/ICDSBS63635.2025.11031737
TI NutriVision: Food Calorie Estimation Using Vision Transformers and
   Personalized Food Recommendations
AU Kayarga T; Surekha C; Madeeha U; Vamshi Gangamma HG; Varsha Gowramma HG
TC 1
SO INT CONF DATA SCI BUS SYST ICDSBS
PY 2025
AB nutrivision : food calorie estimation using vision transformers and
   personalized food recommendations smartly combines machine learning with
   contemporary mobile application development to classify indian food picture
   files , determine their calorie content , and provide personalized dietary
   recommendations . this classification method is based on vit and
   implementation in a mobile app that would serve as the user interface . the
   aim is to create an effective and user friendly platform for monitoring
   calorie intake and informed food choices
DE calorie estimation; food image classification; machine learning ( ml );
   personalized dietary recommendations; vision transformers ( vit )
ID computer vision; food ingredients; learning systems; machine learning;
   mobile applications; nutrition; user interfaces; calorie estimations; food
   image; food image classification; images classification; machine learning;
   machine learning; mobile application development; personalized dietary
   recommendation; picture files; vision transformer; image classification

---

UT 615
AR Shevanie Shupreeya P, 2024, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V718 IFIPAICT,
   P475, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-69986-3_36
TI Machine Learning Powered Nutritional Guidance System Using Personalized
   Nutritional and Digital Health Record
AU Shevanie Shupreeya P; Suseendra M; Shanthini S
TC 0
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB the combination of digital health records and nutritional data has opened up
   a new world of substantiated salutary recommendations in the data driven
   healthcare period of the moment . the objective of this design is to develop
   a state of the art system that provides substantiated salutary suggestions
   to people according to their specific health biographies . this
   revolutionary system will enable druggies to make informed food choices that
   are in line with their individual health objects , salutary preferences ,
   and constraints by integrating rich nutritive data with full electronic
   health records along with nearby location to get it . by exercising
   sophisticated recommendation algorithms and a flexible feedback medium , the
   system will constantly acclimate itself in trouble to enhance stoner health
   results . icing data sequestration and security is of utmost significance ,
   and the design will misbehave with all applicable regulations and norms
DE food recommendation system; health-based food; medical diet
ID data-driven; electronic health; food recommendation system; guidance system;
   health-based food; health records; machine learning; medical diet;
   recommendation algorithms; state of the art system; electronic health record

---

UT 616
AR Sharma V, 2025, AI FUTUR SMART COOK, P271, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-4042-5.ch010
TI AI-Powered Recipe Recommendation Systems and Their Role in Personalized
   Nutrition
AU Sharma V; Gupta N
TC 0
SO AI FUTUR SMART COOK
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is revolutionizing personalized nutrition
   through intelligent recipe recommendation systems that adapt to individual
   dietary needs , preferences , and health goals . these systems utilize
   machine learning algorithms , natural language processing , and user
   generated data to curate meal suggestions that align with personal health
   profiles , such as allergies , fitness objectives , medical conditions , or
   cultural preferences . by analyzing nutritional content , consumption
   patterns , and user feedback , ai driven platforms enhance user engagement
   and foster healthier eating habits . moreover , integration with wearable
   devices and health apps allows for real time dietary tracking and adaptive
   recommendations . despite promising outcomes , challenges such as data
   privacy , algorithm transparency , and user trust remain critical . this
   paper explores the mechanisms , benefits , and limitations of ai powered
   recipe recommendation systems and emphasizes their potential to transform
   modern dietary practices into personalized , data driven nutrition models
ID data privacy; food chemistry; food ingredients; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; machine learning; recommender systems; consumption
   patterns; content consumption; language processing; machine learning
   algorithms; medical conditions; natural languages; personal health; user
   engagement; user feedback; user-generated; nutrition

---

UT 617
AR Tang J/1, 2023, EUR J CANCER CARE, V2023, DOI 10.1155/2023/8816960
TI Anticancer Recipe Recommendation Based on Cancer Dietary Knowledge Graph
AU Tang J/1; Huang B; Xie M
TC 4
SO EUR J CANCER CARE
PY 2023
AB many recipes contain ingredients with various anticancer effects , which can
   help users to prevent cancer , as well as provide treatment for cancer
   patients , effectively slowing the disease . existing recipe knowledge graph
   recommendation systems obtain entity feature representations by mining
   latent connections between recipes and between users and recipes to enhance
   the performance of the recommendation system . however , it ignores the
   influence of time on user taste preferences , fails to capture the
   dependency between them from the user s dietary records , and is unable to
   more accurately predict the user s future recipes . we use the kgat to
   obtain the embedding representation of entities , considering the influence
   of time on users , and recipe recommendation can be viewed as a long term
   sequence prediction , introducing lstm networks to dynamically adjust users
   personal taste preferences . based on the user s dietary records , we infer
   the user s preference for the future diet . combined with the cancer
   knowledge graph , we provide the user with diet recommendations that are
   beneficial to disease prevention and rehabilitation . to verify the
   effectiveness and rationality of ppkg , we compared it with three other
   recommendation algorithms on the self created datasets , and the extensive
   experimental results demonstrate that our algorithm performance performs
   other algorithms , which confirmed the effectiveness of ppkg in dealing with
   sequence recommendation . 2023 jianchen tang et al .

---

UT 618
AR Rachitha MV, 2023, INT J TECHNOL, V15, P2357, DOI 10.1007/s41870-023-01228-4
TI MWSMO: Multi-objective Whale Slime Mold Optimization based Food
   Recommendation system for Diabetes patient using GAN model
AU Rachitha MV; Ramakrishna M
TC 6
SO INT J TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB due to the growing number of diabetic patients , it is essential to organize
   and plan balanced nutrition . it is also necessary to recommend certain food
   products that need to be consumed by diabetic patients effectively .
   therefore , this paper develops a novel concept to determine and classify
   diabetic patients thereby recommending a balanced food diet for a healthy
   lifestyle . this article comprises two significant phases namely the data
   pre processing phase as well as the classification phase . in the
   classification phase , a novel adaptive identity preserving conditional
   generative adversarial network based multi objective whale slime mold
   optimization ( aipcgan mwsmo ) algorithm is proposed to accurately determine
   the patients affected by diabetes and to recommend nutritional food products
   based on their health conditions . the proposed approach uses a composition
   of food integrated dataset ( cofid ) dataset to determine the system
   performance . finally , comparing the introduced approach over various
   existing state of art techniques is done with respect to various performance
   metrics and the accuracy rate achieved for the proposed aipcgan mwsmo
   approach is 98 % . 2023 , the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   bharati vidyapeeth s institute of computer applications and management .
DE adaptive identity preserving conditional generative adversarial network;
   balanced diet; diabetes; food product; multi-objective whale slime mold
   optimization

---

UT 619
AR Haussmann S, 2019, CEUR WORK PROC, V2456, P273
TI FoodKG enabled Q&A application
AU Haussmann S; Chen Y/2; Seneviratne O; Rastogi N; Codella J; Chen C-H;
   McGuinness DL; Zaki MJ
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2019
AB we demonstrate the usage of our foodkg [ 3 ] , a food knowledge graph
   designed to assist in food recommendation . this resource , which brings
   together recipes , nutrition , food taxonomies , and links into existing
   ontologies , is used to power a cognitive agent that performs knowledge base
   question answering , primarily to help improve peoples diets by guiding them
   toward better foods . the system demonstration involves three categories of
   questions : simple queries for nutritional information , comparisons of
   nutrients between diffierent foods , and constraint based queries to find
   recipes matching certain criteria
ID demonstrations; knowledge based systems; cognitive agents; constraint-based;
   knowledge base; knowledge graphs; nutritional information; question
   answering; three categories; nutrition

---

UT 620
AR Sarkar BD, 2025, INT J LOGIST MANAG, V36, P354, DOI
   10.1108/IJLM-01-2024-0010
TI A multi-method examination of barriers to traceability in Industry
   5.0-enabled digital food supply chains
AU Sarkar BD; Sharma I; Shardeo V
TC 38
SO INT J LOGIST MANAG
PY 2025
AB purpose : recent worldwide developments have altered how businesses operate
   . as a result , when making business decisions , the emphasis for many
   industries has shifted toward digital adoption to ensure sustainability ,
   and the food supply chain is no exception . however , a substantial gap
   exists in assessing the barriers to a digitized food supply chain enabled by
   industry 5.0 technologies . this study strives to bridge the gap by
   identifying and assessing the barriers to improved traceability . design /
   methodology / approach : for this study , a mixed method approach was used
   encompassing both qualitative and quantitative techniques , including an
   online survey , exploratory factor analysis ( efa ) , and the fuzzy
   evidential reasoning approach ( fera ) . the literature survey and expert
   opinion first yielded a list of 18 barriers , which were subsequently
   examined using efa . as a result , four barriers were removed . the
   remaining 14 barriers were then assessed using fera from the perspectives of
   the technology , organization and environment ( toe ) framework . further ,
   a sensitivity analysis was performed to test the model s reliability .
   findings : the present study resulted in the prioritization of barriers from
   the toe perspective . according to the findings , the top three barriers
   that impede the traceability of industry 5.0-enabled digital food supply
   chains are limited digital and physical infrastructure , inadequate capital
   investment , and the intricate supply chain framework . research limitations
   / implications : the findings from this research will prove valuable for
   decision makers , practitioners and policymakers in developing methods for
   improving traceability within the digital food supply chain . concerned
   stakeholders may use the findings to identify and take immediate action for
   better decision making . originality / value : this study s originality lies
   in its position as one of the first to identify and examine the challenges
   to better traceability in an industry 5.0-enabled digital food supply chain
   . it also adds value by broadening the toe framework s scope in the industry
   5.0-enabled digital food supply chain context
DE food supply chain; fuzzy evidential reasoning approach; industry 50; toe
   framework; traceability

---

UT 621
AR Chen M/1, 2020, PROCESS MANAG, V57, DOI 10.1016/j.ipm.2019.05.012
TI Eating healthier: Exploring nutrition information for healthier recipe
   recommendation
AU Chen M/1; Jia X; Gorbonos E; Hong CT; Yu X/1; Liu Y
TC 62
SO PROCESS MANAG
PY 2020
AB with the booming of personalized recipe sharing networks ( e . g . , yummly
   ) , a deluge of recipes from different cuisines could be obtained easily .
   in this paper , we aim to solve a problem which many home cooks encounter
   when searching for recipes online . namely , finding recipes which best fit
   a handy set of ingredients while at the same time follow healthy eating
   guidelines . this task is especially difficult since the lions share of
   online recipes have been shown to be unhealthy . in this paper we propose a
   novel framework named nutrec , which models the interactions between
   ingredients and their proportions within recipes for the purpose of offering
   healthy recommendation . specifically , nutrec consists of three main
   components : 1 ) using an embedding based ingredient predictor to predict
   the relevant ingredients with user defined initial ingredients , 2 )
   predicting the amounts of the relevant ingredients with a multi layer
   perceptron based network , 3 ) creating a healthy pseudo recipe with a list
   of ingredients and their amounts according to the nutritional information
   and recommending the top similar recipes with the pseudo recipe . we conduct
   the experiments on two recipe datasets , including allrecipes with 36,429
   recipes and yummly with 89,413 recipes , respectively . the empirical
   results support the framework s intuition and showcase its ability to
   retrieve healthier recipes
DE embedding learning; healthy recipes; neural network; nutrition; recipe
   recommender system
ID embeddings; multilayer neural networks; network layers; neural networks;
   best fit; embedding learning; healthy recipes; multilayer perceptron;
   nutrition informations; nutritional information; sharing network; nutrition

---

UT 622
AR Oussaid M, 2022, ISIA - INT SYMP INFORMATICS APPL PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ISIA55826.2022.9993591
TI Food Ontology Enrichment Using Word Embeddings and Machine Learning
   Technologies
AU Oussaid M; Bouarab-Dahmani F; Cullot N
TC 2
SO ISIA - INT SYMP INFORMATICS APPL PROC
PY 2022
AB the emergence of the internet has made available a large amount of food data
   in different formats . therefore , manual relevant data extraction for food
   ontology population and enrichment has become a complex process . the
   automation of the knowledge extraction task offers significant opportunities
   to overcome several manual process limitations , such as complexity ( time
   consuming and resource intense ) . in this paper , we propose a new approach
   that aims at the automated extraction of new ontological concepts from
   unstructured data to enrich a food ontology . for this purpose , an ontology
   and a corpus of food data have been built . this data is used to train the
   word2vec model . then , a measure of similarity based on word embedding is
   done . new entities are selected as candidates according to the result of
   similarity scores and are used to generate new concepts . the obtained
   results showed the effectiveness of our proposal , with a precision score of
   78 %
DE concept extraction; cosine similarity; food ontology; nlp; ontology
   enrichment; word embedding
ID data mining; extraction; machine learning; ontology; population statistics;
   concept extraction; cosine similarity; data extraction; embeddings; food
   ontology; large amounts; machine learning technology; ontology enrichment;
   ontology population; word embedding; embeddings

---

UT 623
AR Boratto L, 2026, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V16486 LNCS, P447, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-21321-1_52
TI FoodNexus: Massive Food Knowledge for Recommender Systems
AU Boratto L; Fenu G; Marras M; Medda G; Zedda G
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2026
AB personalized food recommendation can promote healthier , sustainable eating
   , but current systems often rely on sparse and unstructured data , limiting
   semantic expressiveness and diverse personalization . in this paper , we
   propose foodnexus , a large scale knowledge graph with nearly one billion
   triples designed to enrich food recommendation with structured , nutrition
   aware , and user contextual information . we built it via a multi stage
   pipeline that combines and augments the largest public dataset of userrecipe
   interactions , hummus , with extensive metadata from open food facts by
   linking recipes to concrete food products , extracting user traits from
   their biographies and reviews , and mapping both data sources onto the same
   ontology . experiments show that foodnexus enables richer , nutrition
   sensitive evaluation of recommendations . code and resource :
DE food ontology; knowledge extraction; nutrition; recipe recommendation;
   sustainability; user-side knowledge graph
ID extraction; food ingredients; food products; knowledge graph; ontology;
   recommender systems; semantics; current system; food ontology; knowledge
   extraction; knowledge graphs; large-scales; personalizations; recipe
   recommendation; sparse data; unstructured data; user-side knowledge graph;
   nutrition

---

UT 624
AR Kumar SJ, 2026, J PHYS CONF SER, V3191, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/3191/1/012105
TI ANALYZING FOOD DEMAND SUPPLY CHAINS WITH TIME SERIES AND REGRESSOR
   FORECASTING MODELS
AU Kumar SJ; Saketh PB; Kumar PC; Shaik A; Meena V
TC 0
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2026
AB many items possess a limited duration of shelf life as well as even poor
   inventory control can lead to substantial loss and waste for the
   organization reliable demand projections have become critical , especially
   in the food industry . recent work on handling time dependent data has shown
   significant gains for several machine learning approaches . the proposed
   work analyzes the impact of different variables on demand , extracts the
   distinguishing characteristics that may have an influence , and suggests a
   comparison analysis of regressors to anticipate the no . of orders using the
   ' food demand forecasting ' dataset made public by genpact . random forest
   regressor , cat boost regressor , and ensemble model as a part of machine
   learning and lstm , bilstm and ensemble of lstm and bilstm models as a part
   of deep learning are some of the regression model investigated in this paper
   for increasing the accurate demand forecasting . along with explainable ai (
   xai ) framework includes in this model to determine the features that affect
   the target variable ( number of orders ) that helps the hotel management for
   maintaining the stock of raw materials for the upcoming weeks . the outcomes
   show the innovative deep learning ensemble model paradigm s potential in
   predicting how it works better than deep learning and other machine learning
   methods . by integrating xai framework that provides the reason for
   satisfying or not satisfying the need of hotel management subsequently to
   the customer . in our experiments , the meta ensemble model achieved rmse of
   0.1912 and mae of 0.1325 , outperforming individual models such as catboost
   ( rmse 11.16 ) and lstm ( rmse 0.4894 ) , demonstrating its superior
   predictive performance . 2026 institute of physics publishing
ID chemical contamination; data handling; deep learning; food supply;
   forecasting; inventory control; learning systems; prediction models; random
   forests; shelf life; supply chains; time series; demand forecasting; demand
   projection; demand supplies; ensemble models; food demand; food industries;
   forecasting models; hotel managements; shelf life; times series; regression
   analysis

---

UT 625
AR Ribeiro D, 2017, ICT4AWE - PROC INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL AGEING E-HEALTH,
   P36, DOI 10.5220/0006281900360045
TI SousChef: Mobile meal recommender system for older adults
AU Ribeiro D; Machado J; Ribeiro J; Vasconcelos MJM; Vieira EF; De Barros AC
TC 41
SO ICT4AWE - PROC INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL AGEING E-HEALTH
PY 2017
AB nowadays , following a healthy diet is a challenge , either due to the large
   variety of food and ingredient combination possibilities or due to the lack
   of knowledge required to make healthy choices . this problem is even more
   patent among older adults . although some recommender systems and
   applications have been proposed with aim to monitor calorie consumption and
   / or to suggest healthy recipes to general consumers , no similar solution
   was yet presented focused on older adults needs . in this work , a mobile
   meal recommender system , souschef , for this target group is presented .
   this system is capable of creating a personalized meal plan based on the
   information provided by the user , including the anthropometric measures ,
   personal preferences and activity level . the nutritional recommendations
   and the application was thought and designed for older adults , presenting
   friendly user interfaces and following the guidelines of a nutritionist .
   tests with users were conducted in order to ascertain recipe and nutritional
   plan suitability as well as usability of the mobile application . results
   showed that more than 70 % of the older adult participants were satisfied
   with the meal plan suggestions and with the simplicity of the souschef
   application . 2017 by scitepress science and technology publications , lda
DE intelligent companions; mobile health monitoring older adults; nutrition;
   personalized interfaces; recommender system
ID nutrition; user interfaces; activity levels; healthy diet; intelligent
   companions; mobile applications; older adults; personalized interface;
   similar solution; target group; recommender systems

---

UT 626
AR Magyari-Sáska Z, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15061006
TI From Cookbooks to Networks: A Framework for Comparing Multiethnic Ingredient
   Systems in Transylvania
AU Magyari-Sáska Z; Magyari-Sáska A; Bálint-Bálint L
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB cookbooks serve as structured records of both ingredient repertoires and the
   underlying processing logics that define a culture s culinary identity . by
   modeling five transylvanian ethnic traditions hungarian , romanian ,
   transylvanian saxon , jewish , and armenian as weighted , undirected co
   occurrence networks , we found that interethnic connectivity is driven
   primarily by technological processes rather than simple ingredient presence
   . using purposive sampling , we compiled a harmonized corpus of 1409 recipes
   and applied explicit ingredient normalization ( retention , aggregation ,
   and deconstruction ) and a 14-class functional taxonomy . we computed
   density , clustering , modularity , and centrality measures and compared
   cuisines with a binary jaccard index , both at the category level and within
   four course types . category networks reveal an exceptionally tight
   hungarianromanianarmenian triangle ( j > 0.95 ) , whereas course level
   results show that main dishes exhibit the strongest divergence ( j < 0.28 )
   . these results support a layered identity model of transylvanian gastronomy
   : while shared confectionery frameworks in desserts dissolve ethnic
   boundaries ( m < 0.17 ) , main dishes actively guard cultural boundaries
   through distinct technological signatures
DE centrality measures; community detection; computational gastronomy; culinary
   acculturation; food technology; historical cookbooks; ingredient co-
   occurrence networks; jaccard similarity; network science; transylvania
ID aged; article; controlled study; cultural factor; drug analysis; female;
   food handling; human; major clinical study; taxonomy

---

UT 627
AR Vern P, 2024, LOGFORUM, V20, P209, DOI 10.17270/J.LOG.001023
TI UNLOCKING CONSUMER TRUST: EXPLORING KEY FACTORS IN BLOCKCHAIN-ENABLED
   TRACEABILITY FOR THE PROCESSED FOOD SUPPLY CHAIN
AU Vern P; Panghal A/1; Dilbaghi AN; Mor RS/1; Muduli K; Dabo A-A
TC 3
SO LOGFORUM
PY 2024
AB background : this study explores the key factors of blockchain enabled
   traceability systems that influence consumer trust in the indian processed
   food supply chain . the study provides crucial information for companies ,
   managers and policymakers considering blockchain initiatives for food supply
   chain traceability and transparency . from an academic perspective , it
   bridges the knowledge gap between consumer trust and blockchain enabled
   traceability . it also contributes to a better understanding and knowledge
   of the key trust influencing factors of blockchain enabled traceability
   systems . materials and methods : the study adopted a quantitative research
   approach , utilizing a structured questionnaire for data collection .
   exploratory factor analysis was employed to identify and analyze the trust
   influencing factors of blockchain enabled traceability systems . it provides
   empirical evidence that adopting a blockchain enabled traceability system
   can enhance consumer trust . results : the study revealed that consumers
   perceive ' food authenticity ' , ' environmental sustainability ' , '
   product traceability ' , and ' assured transparency ' as significant trust
   influencing factors in blockchain enabled traceability systems for processed
   food products . the study encourages collaboration between food producers ,
   retailers , and technology providers to develop a digital food supply chain
   . conclusions : by harnessing blockchain enabled traceability systems , the
   complexities of afsc can be documented and stored in an immutable ledger ,
   offering consumers unprecedented transparency and accountability . this
   fosters consumer trust by providing information on food origin , processing
   , and quality measures . wyzsza szkoa logistyki , poznan , polska .
DE blockchain technology; consumer trust; food industry; supply chain
   traceability; transparency

---

UT 628
AR Brintha NC, 2022, INT CONF COMMUN ELECTRON SYST ICCES - PROC, P1364, DOI
   10.1109/ICCES54183.2022.9835808
TI A Food Recommendation System for Predictive Diabetic Patients using ANN and
   CNN
AU Brintha NC; Nagaraj P; Tejasri A; Durga BV; Teja MT; Kumar MNVP
TC 48
SO INT CONF COMMUN ELECTRON SYST ICCES - PROC
PY 2022
AB in the present society , many people are suffering from diabetes . to
   maintain a healthier diet , people must track the number of food calories
   they consume daily , along with their total calories . there is a growing
   desire for automated technologies that can help diabetics manage their diet
   and benefit the population by better analyzing the impact of different types
   of food on diabetes glucose levels . this research study includes two types
   of datasets : one for diabetic prediction and one for food recognition .
   this paper has implemented a diabetic prediction using ann ( 3 dense layers
   ) , food recognition along with nutrient values by using the cnn model and
   transfer learning based on vgg16 , and a food tracking system to track daily
   food along with total calories . finally , our results will be available on
   the website , which can recognize food and track food items along with
   estimating calories . with the help of user input based on their glucose
   readings , the proposed model will predict whether the user has diabetes or
   not . based on the user s preference , they can use a food recognition and
   food tracking system
DE diabetes; estimating calories; prediction; recognition; tracking system
ID glucose; tracking ( position ); automated technology; dense layer; diabetics
   patients; estimating calory; glucose level; healthy diet; nutrient values;
   recognition; research studies; tracking system; forecasting

---

UT 629
AR Starychfojtu J, 2020, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P144, DOI
   10.1145/3428757.3429096
TI SmartRecepies: Towards Cooking and Food Shopping Integration via Mobile
   Recipes Recommender System
AU Starychfojtu J; Peska L
TC 8
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2020
AB recommender systems are now part of our daily life more than ever and most
   users are confronted with some form of recommendation on a daily basis . as
   users of such systems , we do not need to actively seek for new content ,
   but let it be comfortably recommended to us instead . one of the important
   parts of our lives that is yet to be covered in this way is the domain of
   cooking . a traditional dilemma of a person , who is currently in the
   process of shopping for food is ' what else should i buy , so that i can
   cook something new ? ' in another words , the person either has to look for
   novel recipes upfront ( which does not have to correspond with available
   ingredients in the shop ) , or buy ingredients intuitively ( which does not
   have to correspond with recipes ) . the main objective of this paper is to
   bind cooking and shopping activities together via a mobile recipes
   recommendation application . the application responds on the content of a
   user s shopping list and strives for calibration of recommended recipes . in
   an online user study , we also show that calibrated recommendations
   outperform both diversity enhanced and plain similarity based
   recommendations
DE calibration; mobile applications; recipes recommendation
ID integration; recommender systems; web services; websites; daily lives;
   online users; shopping activity; shopping lists; cooking

---

UT 630
AR Ueda M, 2016, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P472, DOI 10.1145/3011141.3011192
TI A recipe recommendation system that considers user's mood
AU Ueda M
TC 6
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2016
AB homemaker decide what to cook based on the mood they are in , the
   ingredients they have in their refrigerators , or the in gredients offered
   in a supermarket . most of the existing ser vices for searching recipes
   allow ingredient names or recipe names as search input . we propose a system
   that allows searching recipes based on the users mood . to develop the
   system , we gather words to express a user s mood when mak ing a menu
   decision and classify them according to their re lationship . we determine
   six aspects of a user s mood . the result of our preliminary experiment and
   a questionnaire based survey show that our method describes a user s mood
   when deciding for a menu and that the system helps in the decision making .
   furthermore , we propose a method for automatically generating recipe
   metadata , which we plan to add to our system
DE automatic metadata generation; recipe recommender system; recipe similarity;
   user mood
ID decision making; information analysis; information retrieval; metadata;
   surveys; web services; websites; metadata generation; recipe similarity;
   user mood; recommender systems

---

UT 631
AR Lawdi S, 2025, RES INVEN INNOV CONGR INNOV ELECTR ELECTRON RI2C, P251, DOI
   10.1109/RI2C67120.2025.11282638
TI Optimizing Machine Learning Approaches for Personalized Food Recommendation
   Systems in Non-Communicable Disease Management
AU Lawdi S; Boonnam N
TC 0
SO RES INVEN INNOV CONGR INNOV ELECTR ELECTRON RI2C
PY 2025
AB this paper presents a comprehensive analysis of machine learning
   methodologies for developing personalized food recommendation systems
   tailored to the management of non communicable diseases ( ncds ) . the study
   evaluates the effectiveness of various algorithms , including content based
   filtering , collaborative filtering , deep generative models , and hybrid
   approaches , in delivering nutritionally appropriate and individualized
   dietary guidance . among the algorithms tested , the random forest algorithm
   achieved the highest accuracy at 91.8 % , followed by the k nearest
   neighbors ( knn ) algorithm at 89.5 % , and the multi layer perceptron ( mlp
   ) algorithm at 85.0 % . the findings highlight the significant potential of
   personalized food recommendation systems to support individualized nutrition
DE machine learning; non-communicable diseases; personalized food
   recommendation
ID data mining; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; nutrition; random
   forests; comprehensive analysis; content-based filtering; disease
   management; generative model; hybrid approach; machine learning approaches;
   machine learning; modeling approach; non-communicable disease; personalized
   food recommendation; learning systems

---

UT 632
AR Sri JP, 2025, INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL SUSTAIN ELECTR COMMUN SYST ITECH
   SECOM, DOI 10.1109/iTechSECOM64750.2025.11307303
TI Eat'osure: an AI-Powered Food Allergen and Diet Planner Web Application
AU Sri JP; Prateeksha J; Sri SDR; Sugantha PP
TC 0
SO INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL SUSTAIN ELECTR COMMUN SYST ITECH SECOM
PY 2025
AB eat'osure is a simple web based application designed to aid individuals with
   food allergies or diet restrictions by recommending personalized meals . the
   application utilizes a random forest machine learning algorithm to
   accurately detect allergens in restaurant foods . most importantly , the
   application is designed to ensure user safety and restaurant confidentiality
   while withholding full recipes . notable features include custom diet
   filters , such as nut free and vegan , along with live menu updates . this
   article describes the system architecture , artificial intelligence strategy
   , and measures of performance , with specific examples where eat'osure can
   provide food safety along with dining convenience
DE allergen detection; dietary planning; flask; food recommendation system;
   mongodb; privacy-preserving ai; random forest; web application
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; data privacy; food chemistry; food
   ingredients; food safety; nutrition; random forests; websites; allergen
   detection; dietary planning; flask; food recommendation system; mongodb;
   privacy-preserving; privacy-preserving ai; random forests; web application;
   web applications; allergens

---

UT 633
AR Karpati D, 2020, AIES - PROC AAAI/ACM CONF AI ETHICS SOC, P313, DOI
   10.1145/3375627.3375874
TI Ethics of food recommender applications
AU Karpati D; Najjar A; Ambrossio DA
TC 13
SO AIES - PROC AAAI/ACM CONF AI ETHICS SOC
PY 2020
AB the recent unprecedented popularity of food recommender applications has
   raised several issues related to the ethical , societal and legal
   implications of relying on these applications . in this paper , in order to
   assess the relevant ethical issues , we rely on the emerging principles
   across the ai and ethics community and define them tailored context
   specifically . considering the popular food recommender systems ( henceforth
   f rs ) in the european market can not be regarded as personalized f rs , we
   show how merely this lack of feature shifts the relevance of the focal
   ethical concerns . we identify the major challenges and propose a scheme for
   how explicit ethical agendas should be explained . we also argue how a multi
   stakeholder approach is indispensable to ensure producing long term benefits
   for all stakeholders . after proposing eight ethical desiderata points for f
   rs , we present a case study and assess it based on our proposed desiderata
   points
DE ethics; explainability transparency; food recommender systems
ID recommender systems; ethical concerns; ethical issues; european markets;
   legal implications; multi-stakeholder approach; ethical aspects

---

UT 634
AR Kavindya N, 2025, PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES ADV GLOB CONNECT EMERG
   TECHNOL SOLUT, DOI 10.1109/ICITR69413.2025.11353500
TI An Intelligent Hybrid Food Recommendation System for Chronic Kidney Disease
   Management: Integrating Clinical Guidelines, Personal Preferences, and
   Explainable AI
AU Kavindya N; Abayadeera M; Shanawaz S; Ganegoda GU/1; Sandanayake TC
TC 0
SO PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES ADV GLOB CONNECT EMERG TECHNOL SOLUT
PY 2025
AB chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) affects millions globally , requiring careful
   dietary management to slow disease progression and reduce complications .
   traditional dietary counseling relies on generic meal plans that overlook in
   dividual preferences and cultural habits , resulting in poor adherence and
   suboptimal outcomes . this research proposes a comprehensive hybrid food
   recommendation system tailored for ckd patients that integrates evidence
   based clinical guidelines with personalized user preferences and
   collaborative filtering . the system combines three core components : a
   clinical nutrition compliance engine implementing evidence based kdoqi 2024
   dietary guidelines through strict binary filtering , a personalized
   preference matching module using content based filtering with tf idf
   vectorization and combined similarity scoring , and a community insight
   recommendation engine leveraging svd based collaborative filtering from
   similar patient profiles . developed using the food . com recipe and
   interaction dataset , the system processes 161,331 recipes with 477,990 high
   quality user interactions after sparsity reduction from an original
   1,132,367 ratings , the system incorporates a comprehensive explainable ai (
   xai ) framework providing transparent justifications for each recommendation
   . the collaborative filtering module achieved rmse of 0.55 and mae of 0.3 ,
   demonstrating accurate user preference prediction . the clinical nutrition
   compliance engine successfully filtered recipes based on ckd stage specific
   nutritional thresholds , while the preference matching module effectively
   incorporated dietary restrictions and taste preferences . the integrated xai
   framework generated comprehensive explanations combining medical rationale ,
   preference alignment , and community insights . the proposed hybrid system
   demonstrates the feasibility of integrating clinical safety with
   personalized food recommendations for ckd patients , addressing key
   limitations of traditional dietary counseling while supporting informed
   decision making through explainable ai . future work will focus on real
   world validation with ckd patient populations and incorporation of
   additional clinical parameters
DE chronic kidney disease; clinical decision support; collaborative filtering;
   explainable ai; food recommendation systems; personalized nutrition
ID artificial intelligence; clinical research; decision making; decision
   support systems; diseases; food safety; hybrid systems; nutrition;
   recommender systems; chronic kidney disease; clinical decision support;
   clinical guideline; disease management; evidence-based; explainable ai; food
   recommendation system; matchings; personalized nutrition; user preferences;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 635
AR Bai Z, 2025, INTL J MACH LEARN CYBERN, V16, P6817, DOI
   10.1007/s13042-025-02647-4
TI RMHAT: a multi-graph hierarchical attention network model for personalized
   and granular recipe recommendation
AU Bai Z; Yang P/1; Hu Z/1; Yi M; Chang Y
TC 0
SO INTL J MACH LEARN CYBERN
PY 2025
AB recipe plays a vital role in people s daily life , and the purpose of recipe
   recommendation is to recommend recipes that users are interested in .
   compared with general recommendation tasks , recipe recommendations have the
   following challenges : ( 1 ) recipe recommendations are non atomic , and the
   relation between ingredients is crucial for recipe representation . ( 2 )
   different users have different selection criteria for their favorite recipes
   , and need to capture their personalized preferences . however , existing
   approaches are limited to the connection between users and recipes ,
   ignoring the importance of ingredients and other contents to recipes ,
   resulting in recommendations that can not meet users personalized
   preferences and precision requirements . to solve this problem , we propose
   a new recipe multi graph hierarchical attention network . the recipe and
   ingredient graphs are firstly constructed to capture the relationships
   between recipes and their ingredients . attentive propagation is used to
   combine node feature information and structural information to obtain high
   quality embedding representation . we integrate attentional mechanisms into
   the modeling of recipes and ingredients , using attention networks to
   differentiate the importance of ingredients and adaptively fuse recipe
   embeddings . the next step is to use hierarchical attention networks to
   obtain fine grained user preferences for different recipes and ingredients .
   finally , we introduced the recipe knowledge graph for the purpose of
   enriching the corpus information in order to improve the quality of
   representation learning . the result is to recommend recipes to users that
   match their personalized preferences . we conduct experiments on two real
   datasets and the results show that our approach is state of the art in
   predicting users personalized preferences for recipes . the author ( s ) ,
   under exclusive license to springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer
   nature 2025 .
DE graph attention network; hierarchical attention network; recipe
   recommendation; representation learning
ID graph embeddings; graphitization; network embeddings; daily lives;
   embeddings; feature information; graph attention network; hierarchical
   attention network; information information; network models; recipe
   recommendation; representation learning; selection criteria; knowledge graph

---

UT 636
AR Ponte D, 2025, J VIS COMMUN IMAGE REPRESENT, V110, DOI
   10.1016/j.jvcir.2025.104484
TI Multi-task visual food recognition by integrating an ontology supported with
   LLM
AU Ponte D; Aguilar E; Ribera M/1; Radeva P
TC 1
SO J VIS COMMUN IMAGE REPRESENT
PY 2025
AB food image analysis is a crucial task with far reaching implications across
   various domains , including culinary arts , nutrition , and food technology
   . this paper presents a novel approach to multi task visual food analysis ,
   using large language models to obtain recipes and support the creation of a
   comprehensive food ontology . the approach integrates the food ontology into
   an end to end model , with prior knowledge on the relationships of food
   concepts at different semantic levels , within a multi task deep learning
   visual food analysis approach , to generate better and more consistent class
   predictions . evaluated on two benchmark datasets , mafood 121 and vireofood
   172 , this method demonstrates its effectiveness in single label food
   recognition and multi label food group classification . the ontology
   enhances accuracy , consistency , and generalization by effectively
   transferring knowledge to the learning model . this study underscores the
   potential of ontology based methods to address food image classification
   complexities , with implications for broad applications , including
   automated recipe generation and nutritional assessment
DE food image analysis; food ontology; large language models; multi-task
   learning
ID boning; breadmaking; brining; food chemistry; food ingredients; food
   preservation; food storage; food supply; meats; nutrients; processed foods;
   food image; food image analyze; food ontology; image analyze; image
   analysis; language model; large language model; multi tasks; multi-task
   learning; ontologys; food preservatives

---

UT 637
AR Koreddi V, 2025, PROC INT CONF INTELL CYBER PHYS SYST INTERNET THINGS
   ICOICI, P1719, DOI 10.1109/ICoICI65217.2025.11252955
TI A Multi-Modal Deep Learning Framework for Recipe Recommendation Using
   Ingredient-Based Knowledge Extraction
AU Koreddi V; Vidya SS; Jyothi CS; Durga VHSK; Reddy TN; Lokesh M
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL CYBER PHYS SYST INTERNET THINGS ICOICI
PY 2025
AB traditional recipe recommendation systems utilize text data processing and
   detection , but frequently have poor privatization , restricted component
   recognition , and a lack of relevant understanding . to improve the accuracy
   of suggested recommendations , we present a multi model deep learning
   framework ( mmdl rec ) in this work that combines knowledge graph , natural
   language processing ( nlp ) , and computer vision ( cv ) . our method
   utilizes yolov8 and efficientnet to generate incredible reference recipes
   using a transformer based model ( gpt 4 , t5 ) and high pervasive component
   detection in a custom dataset that includes the recipe and content .
   individual food recommendations are guaranteed by a graph neural network (
   gnn ) -powered recommendation system , and strong cross model recovery
   between food photos and word cuisine is made possible by adverse language
   image pretense ( clip ) . results of the experiment 91 % cross model
   recovery precision , 87 bleu scores for recipe production , 93 % component
   identification accuracy , and improved models over current models . the task
   offers a scalable , personalized ai powered recipe recommendation system
   that improves culinary decision making and user experience
DE efficientnet; food recommendation; graph neural network ( gnn ); knowledge
   graph; multi-model framework ( mmdl-rec ); natural language processing ( nlp
   ); recipe recommendation system; t5 ); transformer model ( gpt-4
ID computer system recovery; data handling; data mining; deep learning;
   extraction; knowledge graph; learning algorithms; natural language
   processing systems; neural networks; recommender systems; user experience;
   efficientnet; food recommendation; graph neural network; graph neural
   networks; knowledge graphs; language processing; modeling framework; multi-
   model framework ( mmdl-rec ); multi-modelling; natural language processing;
   natural languages; recipe recommendation system; t5 ); transformer model (
   gpt-4; transformer modeling; decision making

---

UT 638
AR Relekar KM, 2023, GLOB CONF TECHNOL COMMUN GCITC, DOI
   10.1109/GCITC60406.2023.10426098
TI Food Recommendation System Using K-means Clustering and Random Forest
   Algorithm
AU Relekar KM; Dattatray Bobalade S; Mulik SS; Tukaram Kengar S; Goudar RM
TC 4
SO GLOB CONF TECHNOL COMMUN GCITC
PY 2023
AB a balanced diet is a cornerstone of a healthy lifestyle , with far reaching
   effects on overall well being and the prevention of chronic diseases . in
   our increasingly health conscious world , the importance of tailored dietary
   choices has never been more apparent . however , achieving and maintaining a
   balanced diet can be a complex task . to address this challenge , we
   introduce a novel recommendation system integrated into the ' wecare '
   platform . leveraging machine learning techniques , including k means
   clustering and the random forest algorithm , this system generates
   personalized diet plans based on an individual s unique physical attributes
   , health goals , and special dietary needs , such as those of athletes ,
   bodybuilders , and pregnant women . by considering factors such as body mass
   index ( bmi ) , calorie requirements , and health objectives , this system
   empowers individuals to make informed dietary decisions that align with
   their long term well being . this paper outlines the development and
   implementation of this comprehensive recommendation system , highlighting
   its potential to enhance lives through data driven dietary guidance
DE diet planbmicalories; k-means; machine learning; random forest algorithm;
   recommendation system
ID k-means clustering; learning algorithms; machine learning; balanced diet;
   body mass; diet plan; diet planbody mass indexcalory; k-means; k-means++
   clustering; machine learning; mass index; random forest algorithm; well
   being; recommender systems

---

UT 639
AR Cui J, 2025, J SCI, V51, P881, DOI 10.1177/01655515221151139
TI Construction of recipe knowledge graph based on user knowledge demands
AU Cui J; Zhang X/1; Zheng D
TC 10
SO J SCI
PY 2025
AB building a recipe knowledge graph from the perspective of user knowledge
   demands can provide users with accurate and efficient retrieval results and
   recipes . relatively a few ontology studies have been conducted on chinese
   recipes . in addition , some existing recipe ontology models are relatively
   rough , with few dimensions , and others have too many dimensions , that is
   , they lack versatility and can not achieve efficient recipe recommendation
   and query functions . therefore , this article proposes a general recipe
   ontology based on user knowledge demands analyzed from multi source recipes
   . then , this article selects recipes for common edible flowers with health
   benefits , an ontology model and constructs a knowledge graph of flower
   recipes via knowledge extraction , knowledge fusion and other techniques .
   finally , the application of constructed flower recipe knowledge graph is
   discussed , and the results indicated that it can effectively feedback the
   query results and satisfy the knowledge demands of users
DE flower recipe knowledge graph; knowledge extraction; recipe ontology; user
   knowledge demands
ID extraction; graphic methods; knowledge graph; query processing; flower
   recipe knowledge graph; graph-based; knowledge extraction; knowledge graphs;
   ontology model; ontology studies; ontologys; recipe ontology; user
   knowledge; user knowledge demand; ontology

---

UT 640
AR El Majjodi A, 2022, UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P48, DOI
   10.1145/3503252.3531312
TI Nudging Towards Health?  Examining the Merits of Nutrition Labels and
   Personalization in a Recipe Recommender System
AU El Majjodi A; Starke AD; Trattner C
TC 44
SO UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2022
AB food recommender systems show personalized recipes to users based on content
   liked previously . despite their potential , often recommended ( popular )
   recipes in previous studies have turned out to be unhealthy , negatively
   contributing to prevalent obesity problems worldwide . changing how foods
   are presented through digital nudges might help , but these are usually
   examined in non personalized contexts , such as a brick and mortar
   supermarket . this study seeks to support healthy food choices in a
   personalized interface by adding front of package nutrition labels to
   recipes in a food recommender system . after performing an offline
   evaluation , we conducted an online study ( n = 600 ) with six different
   recommender interfaces , based on a 2 ( non personalized vs . personalized
   recipe advice ) x 3 ( no label , multiple traffic light , nutri score )
   between subjects design . we found that recipe choices made in the non
   personalized scenario were healthier , while the use of nutrition labels (
   our digital nudge ) reduced choice difficulty when the content was
   personalized
DE digital nudges; food recommendations; health; nutrition labels;
   personalization
ID recommender systems; digital nudge; food recommendation; healthy foods;
   multiple traffics; nutrition label; offline evaluation; online studies;
   personalizations; personalized interface; traffic light; nutrition

---

UT 641
AR Ozaki T, 2017, PROC IEEE INT CONF ADV NETW APPL WORK WAINA, P509, DOI
   10.1109/WAINA.2017.81
TI Extraction of characteristic sets of ingredients and cooking actions on
   cuisine type
AU Ozaki T; Gao X; Mizutani M
TC 5
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF ADV NETW APPL WORK WAINA
PY 2017
AB because of the recent increase in health consciousness , social networking
   services on user generated recipes pay a wide attention and grow rapidly .
   in recipe sites , each title of recipe sometimes contains the cuisine type (
   japanese , chinese , indian , etc . ) and certain words representing the
   arrangement , and they play an important factor in finding favorite recipes
   in databases . however , the cuisine type is not always provided explicitly
   . in addition , it is not always easy to imagine the concrete arrangement
   even if some words are provided . in this paper , we attempt to characterize
   the cuisine type and words for arrangement from the aspect of ingredients
   and cooking actions . for that purpose , we conduct a series of analyzes by
   using a dataset in a japanese recipe site . first , statistical methods are
   applied to explore the relationships among cuisine types . then , an
   extended tf idf is employed to extract important pairs of cooking actions
   and ingredients . furthermore , to identify characteristic sets of
   ingredients for each cuisine type , association rules on ingredients and
   cuisine types are extracted and evaluated by various evaluation measures .
   through the analysis , we discover certain sets of ingredients and cooking
   actions they relate cuisine type deeply
DE frequent patterns; recipe mining; tf-idf
ID characteristic set; evaluation measures; extraction of characteristics;
   frequent patterns; social networking services; tf-idf; user-generated;
   cooking

---

UT 642
AR Kashyap A/1, 2026, BUS STRATEG ENV, V35, P108, DOI 10.1002/bse.70177
TI Traceability Adoption Barriers in Digital Food Supply Chain to Achieve Food
   Security and Sustainability
AU Kashyap A/1; Shukla O; Raut R; Yadav V; Ghoshal S
TC 1
SO BUS STRATEG ENV
PY 2026
AB the modern food supply chain ( fsc ) faces pressing challenges , including
   food fraud , safety and security issues , food waste and sustainability
   concerns . simultaneously , consumers are becoming increasingly interested
   in understanding the origins and pathways of their food . to tackle these
   challenges , digitization and traceable fscs are vital . however , numerous
   obstacles hinder the widespread adoption of traceability in digital fscs .
   this study identifies and explores interconnections between barriers to
   traceability adoption in digital fscs through an integrated delphi and fuzzy
   dematel approach . the findings highlight that education and training gaps (
   b13 ) , data integration challenges ( b14 ) , data silos ( b10 ) ,
   environmental sustainability concerns ( b16 ) and short term focus ( b17 )
   are among the most influential barriers , impacting several other challenges
   . to mitigate these barriers , the study proposes a nine pillar framework .
   the insights derived from this research can support government agencies ,
   policymakers and agro food industries in advancing traceability adoption
   across digital fscs . 2025 erp environment and john wiley and sons ltd .
DE barriers; digital food supply chain; fuzzy-dematel; nine-pillar framework;
   sustainability; traceability
ID food security; food supply; sustainability

---

UT 643
AR Chen Y/2, 2021, WSDM - PROC ACM INT CONF WEB SEARCH DATA MIN, P544, DOI
   10.1145/3437963.3441816
TI Personalized Food Recommendation as Constrained Question Answering over a
   Large-scale Food Knowledge Graph
AU Chen Y/2; Subburathinam A; Chen C-H; Zaki MJ
TC 78
SO WSDM - PROC ACM INT CONF WEB SEARCH DATA MIN
PY 2021
AB food recommendation has become an important means to help guide users to
   adopt healthy dietary habits . previous works on food recommendation either
   i ) fail to consider users explicit requirements , ii ) ignore crucial
   health factors ( e . g . , allergies and nutrition needs ) , or iii ) do not
   utilize the rich food knowledge for recommending healthy recipes . to
   address these limitations , we propose a novel problem formulation for food
   recommendation , modeling this task as constrained question answering over a
   large scale food knowledge base / graph ( kbqa ) . besides the requirements
   from the user query , personalized requirements from the user s dietary
   preferences and health guidelines are handled in a unified way as additional
   constraints to the qa system . to validate this idea , we create a qa style
   dataset for personalized food recommendation based on a large scale food
   knowledge graph and health guidelines . furthermore , we propose a kbqa
   based personalized food recommendation framework which is equipped with
   novel techniques for handling negations and numerical comparisons in the
   queries . experimental results on the benchmark show that our approach
   significantly outperforms non personalized counterparts ( average 59.7 %
   absolute improvement across various evaluation metrics ) , and is able to
   recommend more relevant and healthier recipes
DE constrained question answering; food recommendation; healthy diet; knowledge
   graphs; personal health
ID information retrieval; knowledge based systems; knowledge representation;
   large dataset; natural language processing systems; nutrition; websites;
   evaluation metrics; health factors; knowledge base; knowledge graphs; novel
   techniques; numerical comparison; problem formulation; question answering;
   data mining

---

UT 644
AR González A, 2025, NUTR, V17, DOI 10.3390/nu17111877
TI In Search of Healthy Ageing: A Microbiome-Based Precision Nutrition Approach
   for Type 2 Diabetes Prevention
AU González A; Fullaondo A; Odriozola A
TC 3
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB background / objectives : type 2 diabetes ( t2d ) is a leading because of
   morbidity and mortality worldwide and in spain , particularly in the elderly
   population , affecting healthy aging . nutritional strategies are key to its
   prevention . the gut microbiota is also implicated in t2d and can be
   modulated by nutrition . we hypothesize that precision nutrition through
   microbiota modulation may help prevent t2d . this article aims to ( 1 )
   describe a gut microbiota bacterial profile associated with t2d prevention ,
   ( 2 ) provide precision nutrition tools to optimize this profile , ( 3 )
   analyze how overweight influences the microbiota composition and precision
   nutrition response , and ( 4 ) address the technical challenges of
   microbiome based precision nutrition clinical implementation to prevent t2d
   . methods : a review of gut microbiota associated with t2d prevention was
   conducted . 13 healthy spanish participants over 62 with optimal blood
   glucose levels ( 7 normal weight and 6 overweight ) underwent a 3-month
   precision nutrition intervention to optimize t2d preventive gut microbiota
   using a bioinformatics food recommendation system , phymofood ( ep22382095 )
   . fecal microbiota was analyzed pre and post intervention using full length
   16s rrna gene amplification , minion sequencing , and ncbi taxonomic
   classification . results : 31 potentially preventive bacteria against t2d
   were selected . the intervention increased the relative abundance of
   beneficial genera ( butyrivibrio and faecalibacterium ) and species (
   eshraghiella crossota , and faecalibacterium prausnitzii ) . the overweight
   influenced microbiota composition and intervention response . conclusions :
   a gut microbiota profile associated with t2d prevention was identified , and
   precision nutrition could increase the relative abundance of beneficial
   bacteria . confounding factors such as overweight should be considered when
   designing microbiome based precision nutrition interventions . these results
   contribute to a better understanding of the microbiota associated with t2d
   prevention and address technical challenges for clinical implementation in
   future healthy aging strategies
DE 16s rrna gene; bioinformatics food recommendation system; gut microbiota;
   healthy aging; microbiome-based precision nutrition; minion sequencing; ncbi
   taxonomic classification; overweight; t2d prevention; type-2 diabetes ( t2d
   )
ID aged; diabetes mellitus type-2; feces; female; gastrointestinal microbiome;
   healthy aging; humans; male; middle aged; overweight; precision medicine;
   spain; rna 16s; adult; aged; article; bioinformatics; butyrivibrio; clinical
   article; comparative study; controlled study; data protection; dna
   extraction; faecalibacterium; faecalibacterium prausnitzii; fasting blood
   glucose level; feces microflora; female; fluorometry; food safety; gene
   amplification; gene dosage; glucose blood level; glucose metabolism; health
   care; healthy aging; human; information processing; intervention study;
   intestine flora; longitudinal study; male; microbiome; mortality; nanopore
   sequencing; non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus; nonhuman; spain;
   spaniard; spectrophotometry; feces; microbiology; middle aged; non insulin
   dependent diabetes mellitus; obesity; personalized medicine; physiology;
   prevention and control; procedures

---

UT 645
AR Elahi M, 2015, CEUR WORK PROC, V1438, P49
TI Interaction design in a mobile food recommender system
AU Elahi M; Ge M; Ricci F; Fernández-Tobías I; Berkovsky S; David M
TC 27
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2015
AB one of the most important steps in building a recommender system is the
   interaction design process , which defines how the recommender system
   interacts with a user . it also shapes the experience the user gets , from
   the point she registers and provides her preferences to the system , to the
   point she receives recommendations generated by the system . a proper
   interaction design may improve user experience and hence may result in
   higher usability of the system , as well as , in higher satisfaction . in
   this paper , we focus on the interaction design of a mo bile food
   recommender system that , through a novel interac tion process , elicits
   users long term and short term prefer ences for recipes . user s long term
   preferences are captured by asking the user to rate and tag familiar recipes
   , while for collecting the short term preferences , the user is asked to
   select the ingredients she would like to include in the recipe to be
   prepared . based on the combined exploitation of both types of preferences ,
   a set of personalized recommendations is generated . we conducted a user
   study measuring the us ability of the proposed interaction . the results of
   the study show that the majority of users rates the quality of the rec
   ommendations high and the system achieves usability scores above the
   standard benchmark . 2015 for the individual papers by the papers authors .
ID benchmarking; decision making; design; user interfaces; in-buildings;
   interaction design; personalized recommendation; short-term; user
   experience; user study; recommender systems

---

UT 646
AR Ramani K, 2024, INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS, P1491, DOI
   10.1109/ICACCS60874.2024.10717303
TI NutriSustain: Bridging Sustainable Practice with Health Conscious Food
   Recommendation System
AU Ramani K; Priya LS; Santhoshi LS; Manichandrika G; Koushik GV
TC 2
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS
PY 2024
AB in today s fast paced world , where health often neglected due to busy
   schedules and unhealthy eating habits , there is a growing need for
   innovative solutions to guide individuals toward healthier dietary choices .
   recognizing this demand , our proposed food recommender system aims to
   bridge the gap by providing personalized and nutritious meal recommendations
   tailored to individual health needs and preferences . these systems promote
   nutritious meals and highlight pesticide free seasonal foods , offering a
   pathway to a healthier lifestyle . the proposed innovative approach
   comprises three pivotal phases : personalized and nutritious meal
   recommendation through lstm , prioritizes food quality through catboost and
   creatively addresses food waste by providing inventive recipes for leftover
   food using generative adversarial networks ( gan ) . we compared our model
   with a set of state of the art recommender systems using three distinct
   performance metrics : precision , recall , f1 . in experiments with an
   indian recipe dataset , our integrated recommender system , incorporating
   recurrent neural networks ( lstm ) , catboost , and zero waste kitchen with
   gan , demonstrated exceptional performance in food recommendations
DE cat boost; chronic health management; deep learning; food recommender
   system; gan; innovative recipe generation; lstm; pesticide assessment
ID adversarial networks; cat boost; chronic health management; deep learning;
   food recommender system; health management; innovative recipe generation;
   lstm; pesticide assessment; sustainable practices

---

UT 647
AR [Anonymous], 2024, TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG BUS
   TECHNOL, DOI 10.1109/TQCEBT59414.2024.10545212
TI Implementation of a Personalized and Healthy Meal Recommendation System
   using Website in aid to Achieve User Dietary Preferences
TC 2
SO TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG BUS TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB this abstract describes a new meal planning website designed to simplify and
   enhance the user s cooking experience . the platform uses advanced
   technology to create personalized meal plans based on a person s food
   preferences , nutritional needs , and cooking skill level . users can access
   multiple recipe libraries , organize weekly menus and create shopping lists
   , promoting healthy meal planning and reducing food waste . the site also
   offers interactive features such as food tracking , food reviews and user
   feedback to build a strong and engaged community . this new approach to meal
   planning combines technology with culinary knowledge to provide solutions
   for people who need easy and healthy food management . the website aims to
   revolutionize home cooking by providing users with comprehensive and
   flexible tools to achieve their nutrition and lifestyle goals
DE algorithm; community; cooking experience; food review; interactive features;
   meal planning; menu; permission to throw food; personal; web
ID food chemistry; community; cooking experience; food review; healthy meals;
   interactive features; meal planning; menu; permission to throw food;
   personal; web; food ingredients

---

UT 648
AR Yang L/2, 2017, ACM TRANS SYST, V36, DOI 10.1145/3072614
TI Yum-Me: A personalized nutrient-based meal recommender system
AU Yang L/2; Hsieh C-K; Yang H/3; Pollak JP; Dell N; Belongie S; Cole C; Estrin
   D
TC 166
SO ACM TRANS SYST
PY 2017
AB nutrient based meal recommendations have the potential to help individuals
   prevent or manage conditions such as diabetes and obesity . however ,
   learning people s food preferences and making recommendations that
   simultaneously appeal to their palate and satisfy nutritional expectations
   are challenging . existing approaches either only learn high level
   preferences or require a prolonged learning period . we propose yum me , a
   personalized nutrient based meal recommender system designed to meet
   individuals nutritional expectations , dietary restrictions , and fine
   grained food preferences . yum me enables a simple and accurate food
   preference profiling procedure via a visual quiz based user interface and
   projects the learned profile into the domain of nutritionally appropriate
   food options to find ones that will appeal to the user . we present the
   design and implementation of yum me and further describe and evaluate two
   innovative contributions . the first contriution is an open source state of
   the art food image analysis model , named fooddist . we demonstrate fooddist
   s superior performance through careful benchmarking and discuss its
   applicability across a wide array of dietary applications . the second
   contribution is a novel online learning framework that learns food
   preference from itemwise and pairwise image comparisons . we evaluate the
   framework in a field study of 227 anonymous users and demonstrate that it
   outperforms other baselines by a significant margin . we further conducted
   an end to end validation of the feasibility and effectiveness of yum me
   through a 60-person user study , in which yum me improves the recommendation
   acceptance rate by 42.63 %
DE food preferences; nutrient-based meal recommendation; online learning;
   personalization; visual interface
ID benchmarking; e-learning; education; nutrients; nutrition; user interfaces;
   acceptance rate; design and implementations; food preference; image
   comparison; online learning; personalizations; state of the art; visual
   interface; recommender systems

---

UT 649
AR Popovski G, 2020, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1297, P413, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-66196-0_19
TI FoodOntoMapV2: Food Concepts Normalization Across Food Ontologies
AU Popovski G; Seljak BK/1; Eftimov T
TC 1
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2020
AB nowadays , the existence of several available biomedical vocabularies and
   standards play a crucial role in understanding health information . while
   there is a large number of available resources in the biomedical domain ,
   only a limited number of resources can be utilized in the food domain .
   there are only a few annotated corpora with food concepts , as well as a
   small number of rule based food named entity recognition systems for food
   concept extraction . additionally , several food ontologies exist , each
   developed for a specific application scenario . to address the issue of
   ontology alignment , we have previously created a resource , named
   foodontomap , that consists of food concepts extracted from recipes . the
   extracted concepts were annotated by using semantic tags from four different
   food ontologies . to make the resource more comprehensive , as well as more
   representative of the domain , in this paper we have extended this resource
   by creating a second version , appropriately named foodontomapv2 . this was
   done by including an additional four ontologies that contain food concepts .
   moreover , this resource can be used for normalizing food concepts across
   ontologies and developing applications for understanding the relation
   between food systems , human health , and the environment
DE food data linking; food data normalization; food ontology; food semantics
ID knowledge management; natural language processing systems; semantics; text
   processing; application scenario; biomedical domain; biomedical
   vocabularies; concept extraction; food ontology; health informations; named
   entity recognition; ontology alignment; ontology

---

UT 650
AR Ge M, 2015, LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG, V162,
   P335
TI Integrating wearable devices into a mobile food recommender system
AU Ge M; Massimo D; Ricci F; Zini F
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES INST COMPUT SCI SOC INFORMATICS TELECOMMUN ENG
PY 2015
AB the booming development of wearable devices has created new opportunities
   and challenges for recommender system research . in fact , the relevance of
   a recommendation is largely affected by the user s real time requirements ,
   and therefore understanding the precise user s situation at recommendation
   time is pivotal . wearable devices can contribute to provide this rich
   description of the user s situation . in particular , in food recommender
   systems this set of user s data can lead to novel research challenges that
   are illustrated in this paper
DE food recommender system; mobile application; personalization; wearable
   devices
ID chemical contamination; mobile computing; mobile devices; wearable
   technology; mobile applications; personalizations; real time requirement;
   research challenges; wearable devices; recommender systems

---

UT 651
AR Puraram T, 2021, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P90, DOI 10.1145/3468891.3468904
TI Thai food recommendation system using hybrid of particle swarm optimization
   and K-means algorithm
AU Puraram T; Chaovalit P; Peethong A; Tiyanunti P; Charoensiriwath S; Kimpan W
TC 13
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2021
AB a food recommendation system is an information filtering tool that helps
   suggest appropriate food menus to users based on their dietary behavior ,
   nutrition , health , or activity . in this paper , a hybrid method of
   particle swarm optimization ( pso ) and k means algorithm is proposed to
   improve the user s dietary behavior clustering and using principal component
   analysis ( pca ) to reduce the data dimension . moreover , the user based
   collaborative filtering technique is used to predict the rating of relevant
   thai food menus and recommendation . the experimental result shows the
   hybrid method improves the clustering performance from 3 models :
   hierarchical clustering , k means , and k means with pca , in terms of
   silhouette coefficient score . in addition , the hybrid method improves the
   davies bouldin index score by 44 % , 19 % , and 17 % compared to those
   models , respectively . the rating prediction result shows the hybrid method
   outperforms the other methods
DE collaborative filtering; k-means; particle swarm optimization; thai food
   recommendation
ID behavioral research; collaborative filtering; hierarchical clustering;
   machine learning; nutrition; particle swarm optimization ( pso );
   recommender systems; collaborative filtering techniques; data dimensions;
   davies-bouldin index; hybrid method; k-means; k-means clustering

---

UT 652
AR Nezis A, 2018, PROC WORK ADV VIS INTERFACES, DOI 10.1145/3206505.3206590
TI Towards a fully personalized food recommendation tool
AU Nezis A; Papageorgiou H; Georgiadis P; Jiskra P; Pappas D; Pontiki M
TC 3
SO PROC WORK ADV VIS INTERFACES
PY 2018
AB we present1 a personalized ingredient based deep learning recommender on the
   food domain that exploits ingredients and nutrition information to create
   recipe representations and propose to every user a more personalized and
   healthier meal . the recommender will be a critical component in our meal
   prediction tool ( mpt ) designed with a focus on the personalization of
   services , increasing business efficiency and sustainability in the
   hospitality , restaurant and catering ( horeca ) industry
DE deep learning; food recommender; horeca industry
ID calcium alloys; holmium alloys; rhenium alloys; ternary alloys; business
   efficiency; critical component; nutrition informations; personalizations;
   prediction tools; deep learning

---

UT 653
AR Lim H, 2019, UBICOMP/ISWC - ADJUN PROC ACM INT JT CONF PERVASIVE UBIQUITOUS
   COMPUT PROC ACM INT SYMP WEARABLE COMPUT, P129, DOI 10.1145/3341162.3343836
TI Smart Cook: Making cooking easier with multimodal learning
AU Lim H; Huang X/6; Miller S; Edelmann J; Euken T; Voida S
TC 7
SO UBICOMP/ISWC - ADJUN PROC ACM INT JT CONF PERVASIVE UBIQUITOUS COMPUT PROC
   ACM INT SYMP WEARABLE COMPUT
PY 2019
AB learning how to cook presents at least two significant challenges . first ,
   it can be difficult for novices to find appropriate recipes based on the
   ingredients available in one s pantry and / or refrigerator . second , it
   can be difficult to focus on cooking tasks and following a recipe at the
   same time . in this poster , we present the design process and
   implementation of a system that uses deep learning to address the first of
   these two problems . our initial design work focuses on streamlining the
   process of entering and tracking potential ingredients on hand and
   determining appropriate recommendations for recipes that utilize these
   ingredients . here , we present the current state of our project ,
   explaining in particular our contributions to minimizing the overhead of
   tracking kitchen ingredients and converting this inventory information into
   effective recipe recommendations using a multimodal machine learning
   approach
DE deep learning; domestic computing; recipe recommendation system; ubiquitous
   computing design
ID deep learning; ubiquitous computing; wearable computers; design process;
   domestic computing; initial design; inventory information; machine learning
   approaches; multi-modal; multi-modal learning; cooking

---

UT 654
AR Forouzandeh S, 2024, ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL, V135, DOI
   10.1016/j.engappai.2024.108766
TI UIFRS-HAN: User interests-aware food recommender system based on the
   heterogeneous attention network
AU Forouzandeh S; Berahmand K; Rostami M/1; Aminzadeh A; Oussalah M
TC 27
SO ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL
PY 2024
AB in recent years , the surge in social media platform usage has sparked a
   heightened interest in applying recommender systems ( rss ) within the food
   industry . traditionally , the exploration of user interests focused on
   analyzing behaviors linked to food selection . the availability of user
   interaction datasets now provides avenues for deeper insights into food
   content and intricate user relationships . this paper advocates
   strategically integrating heterogeneous information networks ( hin ) into
   recommender system frameworks . it introduces the heterogeneous attention
   network based user interests aware food recommender system ( uifrs han ) ,
   designed for personalized food recommendations . by leveraging hin and a two
   step attention mechanism , uifrs han captures diverse entities and
   relationships within a unified framework . uifrs han employs an attention
   technique to reconstruct node features and edges , incorporating a dual
   hierarchical attention mechanism for improved unsupervised learning of
   attributed graph representations . besides , hin allows the model to uncover
   meaningful relationships between nodes , particularly when directed
   relationships are unclear . through a defined meta path based attention
   mechanism , uifrs han generates diverse recommendations based on users
   interests across various relations among different types of nodes of the hin
   . by discerning intricate patterns and correlations , uifrs han surpasses
   traditional approaches in delivering refined and contextually relevant
   recommendations . the proposed model enhances representation depth and
   accuracy by employing node embedding through a hierarchical meta path
   structure . rigorous testing on allrecipes . com and food . com datasets ,
   compared against 15 baselines and state of the art models , confirms the
   technical soundness and superiority of uifrs han in providing precise and
   personalized food recommendations
DE attention; food recommender system; heterogeneous information networks ( hin
   ); node-level attention ( nla ); semantic-level attention ( sla ); user
   interests
ID information services; semantics; attention; attention mechanisms; food
   recommende system; heterogeneous information; heterogeneous information
   network; information networks; node-level attention; semantic levels;
   semantic-level attention; users interests; recommender systems

---

UT 655
AR Xia X/1, 2025, INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT TECHNOL IC3IT, DOI
   10.1109/IC3IT66137.2025.11341182
TI Personalized Food Recommendation Using a Semantic-Aware User Collaborative
   Filtering Framework with Multimodal Reasoning
AU Xia X/1; Wang N/1
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMMUN COMPUT TECHNOL IC3IT
PY 2025
AB background : in modern era , enhanced and intelligent food recommendation
   systems for assisting users with recipe suggestions and personalized meal
   based on historical consumption behavior , nutritional needs and dietary
   preferences . challenge : existing heterogeneous attention network based
   user interests aware food recommender system ( uifrs han ) model failed to
   capture the semantic attributes of recipe data with user interests to
   provide contextaware food recommendations . proposed model : to overcome
   these limitations , this research proposes a semantic aware user
   collaborative filtering ( sa ucf ) framework for personalized food
   recommendation ( pfr ) by integrating collaborative reasoning of multimodal
   semantics . initially , the data was obtained from allrecipe . com dataset ,
   which consists of user ratings , textual recipe title with descriptions ,
   ingredient list and nutritional compositions . then preprocessing step
   performs text embedding using word2vec and min max normalization of
   numerical values of rating and nutritional attributes . to construct unified
   recipe and user profile representations , a multimodal semantic fusion
   integrates textual , nutrient , and ingredient embeddings , while hybrid
   cosine similarity measure semantic and behavioral compute user relationships
   . finally , similarity weighted rating prediction generates the top n
   personalized food recommendation list . results : experimental results
   demonstrated that the proposed sa ucf framework achieved higher contextual
   precision of 0.0932 , when compared with uifrs han model
DE multi-modal semantics; personalized food recommendation; similarity-weighted
   rating; user collaborative filtering; user profile embedding construction
ID behavioral research; distributed computer systems; food ingredients;
   nutrition; recommender systems; semantic web; semantics; embeddings;
   filtering framework; multi-modal; multi-modal semantic; personalized food
   recommendation; semantic-aware; similarity-weighted rating; user
   collaborative filtering; user profile embedding construction; user profiles;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 656
AR Singh R, 2025, HEAL RECOMM SYST TECH RECENT DEV, P239, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-80056-6_11
TI Healthy Food Recommender Systems
AU Singh R; Dwivedi P
TC 0
SO HEAL RECOMM SYST TECH RECENT DEV
PY 2025
AB due to the extensive growth of food variety and hectic lifestyles , people
   have been facing the issue of making healthy food decisions to reduce the
   risk of diseases . in this context , food recommender systems can encourage
   users to change their eating behaviors or suggest healthier food choices .
   food recommendation systems primary objective is to analyze users eating
   habits and persuade them to adopt healthier ones . food recommendation
   systems are designed to identify and predict only those foods that a
   corresponding user is most likely to want to eat and are also healthy . food
   recommendation systems are emerging in online food services to recommend
   healthy food to users based on their previous diets . although unhealthy
   diets may cause challenging diseases such as diabetes , cancer , and
   premature heart disease , many food recommender systems have been developed
   to address these issues . these food recommender systems not only recommend
   foods that meet users preferences but also recommend foods with nutritional
   value , track eating habits , identify health problems , and convince users
   to change their eating behavior . this chapter covers all the concepts
   related to healthy food recommendation , an application domain of healthcare
   recommender systems . we have also discussed some techniques for data
   collection , filtering techniques used for the healthy food recommendation
   and evaluation metrics to evaluate the performance of the recommender
   systems . this chapter concludes with healthy food recommendations ,
   challenges , and attainable future scopes
DE diseases; filtering techniques; healthy food; healthy food recommender;
   nutritional value
ID agri-food; behavioral research; nutrition; recommender systems; eating
   behavior; eating habits; filtering technique; foodservices; healthy food
   recommender; healthy foods; most likely; nutritional value; primary
   objective; diseases

---

UT 657
AR Bagozi A, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15439 LNCS, P273, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-0573-6_20
TI Enhancing LLMs Contextual Knowledge with Ontologies for Personalised Food
   Recommendation
AU Bagozi A; Bianchini D; Melchiori M; Rula A
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems help consumers make sustainable and
   nutritionally complete choices , promoting healthy eating habits and
   addressing the growing interest in food sustainability and waste reduction .
   large language models ( llms ) , such as chatgpt , are increasingly used for
   food recommendations due to their natural language processing capabilities .
   however , providing personalized and contextually relevant suggestions
   remains challenging because of the lack of a robust conceptualization of
   healthy and sustainable food aligned with users dietary and lifestyle
   preferences . ontologies can address this by offering a structured and
   semantically rich framework for organizing information . in this paper , we
   propose a modular ontology to enhance the contextual knowledge of llms ,
   enabling them to deliver personalized , contextually relevant food
   recommendations . the ontology s modules are based on competency questions
   derived from a research project focused on sustainable and healthy food
   recommendations . to evaluate the effectiveness of this approach , we
   conducted experiments where chatgpt 4 answered these competency questions
   with and without ontology integration . the answers were then assessed in a
   user study . preliminary experimental results indicate significant
   improvements in the quality and relevance of recommendations when the
   ontology is employed
DE consumer empowerment; large language models; multi-perspective ontology
   engineering; sustainable food recommendation
ID consumer empowerment; contextual knowledge; eating habits; language model;
   large language model; multi-perspective; multi-perspective ontology
   engineering; ontology engineering; ontologys; sustainable food
   recommendation

---

UT 658
AR Seyam A, 2026, CLEAN LOGIST SUPPLY CHAIN, V19, DOI
   10.1016/j.clscn.2026.100319
TI A proactive food demand forecasting-inventory management approach under
   weather disruptions
AU Seyam A; Mathew SS; Barachi ME; Shen J/1
TC 0
SO CLEAN LOGIST SUPPLY CHAIN
PY 2026
AB effective demand forecasting has become crucial to strengthening system
   resilience , reducing food waste , and achieving sustainability in food
   systems . despite recent advances in leveraging machine learning for food
   demand forecasting , most existing models remain static and assume stable
   demand patterns , posing a challenge for adapting to demand changes during
   disruption events . this paper develops a proactive approach that leverages
   demand forecasting outputs and weather disruption flags to guide inventory
   replenishment , ensuring adaptability to varying demand conditions across
   three weather disruption events while reducing waste . this paper first uses
   a stacking model to predict next day demand for a food retailer , leveraging
   real world historical and weather datasets . additionally , three weather
   disruption flags are identified from real weather data using rule based
   approaches . the proposed methodology further uses predicted demand and
   disruption flags to inform inventory order quantities . the proposed
   proactive approach is assessed using real world data from the australian
   food market , and the findings reveal that the model performs consistently
   across the three weather disruption events , achieving an average accuracy
   of 86 % across all conditions . additionally , the findings highlight the
   effectiveness of the integrated approach in strengthening system resilience
   , reducing food waste , and supporting more sustainable , adaptive food
   supply operations during weather disruptions
DE demand forecasting; food waste; inventory; machine learning; resilience;
   sustainability; weather disruption

---

UT 659
AR Kusmierczyk T, 2016, HT - PROC ACM CONF HYPERTEXT SOC MEDIA, P243, DOI
   10.1145/2914586.2914632
TI Understanding and predicting online food recipe production patterns
AU Kusmierczyk T; Trattner C; Nørvåg K
TC 19
SO HT - PROC ACM CONF HYPERTEXT SOC MEDIA
PY 2016
AB studying online food patterns has recently become an active field of
   research . while there are a growing body of studies that investigate how
   online food in consumed , little effort has been devoted yet to understand
   how online food recipes are being created . to contribute to this lack of
   knowledge in the area , we present in this paper the results of a large
   scale study that aims at understanding how historical , social and temporal
   factors impact on the online food creation process . several experiments
   reveal the extent to which various factors are useful in predicting future
   recipe production
DE creational patterns; food recommender systems; ingredient usage; online food
   recipes; predictive modeling; recipe creation
ID hypertext systems; social networking ( online ); creational patterns;
   ingredient usage; online food recipes; predictive modeling; recipe creation;
   online systems

---

UT 660
AR Bondevik JN, 2024, EXPERT SYS APPL, V238, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2023.122166
TI A systematic review on food recommender systems
AU Bondevik JN; Bennin KE; Babur Ö; Ersch C
TC 58
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2024
AB the internet has revolutionized the way information is retrieved , and the
   increase in the number of users has resulted in a surge in the volume and
   heterogeneity of available data . recommender systems have become popular
   tools to help users retrieve relevant information quickly . food recommender
   systems ( frs ) , in particular , have proven useful in overcoming the
   overload of information present in the food domain . however , the
   recommendation of food is a complex domain with specific characteristics
   causing many challenges . additionally , very few systematic literature
   reviews have been conducted in the domain on frs . this paper presents a
   systematic literature review that summarizes the current state of the art in
   frs . our systematic review examines the different methods and algorithms
   used for recommendation , the data and how it is processed , and evaluation
   methods . it also presents the advantages and disadvantages of frs . to
   achieve this , a total of 67 high quality studies were selected from a pool
   of 2,738 studies using strict quality criteria . the review reveals that the
   domain of food recommendation is very diverse , and most frs are built using
   content based filtering and ml approaches to provide non personalised
   recommendations . the review provides valuable information to the research
   field , helping researchers in the domain to select a strategy to develop
   frs . this review can help improve the efficiency of development , thus
   closing the gap between the development of frs and other recommender systems
DE food recommendation; food recommender system; recommender system; slr;
   systematic literature review
ID current; complex domains; evaluation methods; food recommendation; food
   recommende system; high quality; slr; state of the art; systematic
   literature review; systematic review; recommender systems

---

UT 661
AR Charernmool P, 2023, INT TECH CONF CIRCUITS/SYST COMPUT COMMUN ITC-CSCC, DOI
   10.1109/ITC-CSCC58803.2023.10212928
TI Meal Recommendation System for the Elderly (MRS)
AU Charernmool P; Tawornying C; Prapakornwanichakun T; Vanijkachorn P; Visutsak
   P; Pensiri F
TC 1
SO INT TECH CONF CIRCUITS/SYST COMPUT COMMUN ITC-CSCC
PY 2023
AB in developing countries , the well being of the elderly is not given enough
   attention , especially in terms of nutrition . this is a vital point since
   the meal which the elderly eat typically reflects their health . this paper
   aims to research and develop a web based system with the capacity to design
   appropriate and healthy meal plans for the elderly by nutrition specialist s
   recommendation . eating healthy meal plans for a person helps to have good
   health . it was found that the elderly with diabetic mellitus and kidney
   failure had the better health together with good mental health . moreover ,
   the system can accurately calculate the optimal number of calories which the
   elderly should have each day . a supporting website was developed using html
   and vb . net for expert evaluation 2023 ieee .
DE aging society; decision tree; expert system; nutrition care; senior people
ID decision trees; developing countries; nutrition; websites; aging societies;
   expert evaluation; healthy meals; mental health; not given; nutrition care;
   optimal number; senior peoples; web-based system; well being; expert systems

---

UT 662
AR Ribeiro D, 2018, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V869, P107, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-93644-4_6
TI SousChef: Improved meal recommender system for Portuguese older adults
AU Ribeiro D; Ribeiro J; Vasconcelos MJM; Vieira EF; De Barros AC
TC 9
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2018
AB continuing efforts to increase the relevance and effectiveness of
   nutritional recommendations are essential to promote long term biological
   effects . several studies refer that older adults often struggle with making
   the right decisions regarding meal preparation , healthy diets or groceries
   shopping . in this work research on user needs are presented , where
   different stakeholders were listened concerning their needs and perspectives
   within the domain of nutrition in older adults . moreover , an improved
   version of souschef , a meal recommender system is here presented , where
   new heuristics were added to the system and the users can now choose between
   4 to 6 meals to be planned per day . since another important factor besides
   nutrition and food preferences impact food choice concerns with the budget ,
   new heuristics were considered in order to reduce waste and shortening the
   shopping list . also new heuristics were added to the system to better
   reflect the portuguese nutritional guidelines and information about food
   prices in order foster reducing waste and shortening one s shopping list .
   the nutritional recommendations and the application was thought and designed
   for older adults , presenting friendly user interfaces and following the
   guidelines of a nutritionist
DE intelligent companions; mobile health monitoring; nutrition; older adults;
   personalized interfaces; recommender system
ID budget control; nutrition; user interfaces; biological effects; food
   preference; intelligent companions; mobile health monitoring; older adults;
   personalized interface; reducing waste; shopping lists; recommender systems

---

UT 663
AR Raj S, 2021, PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN CONTROL NETW ICAC3N, P1857,
   DOI 10.1109/ICAC3N53548.2021.9725572
TI Recipe Recommendation System with Ingredients Available on User
AU Raj S; Sinha A; Srivastav M; Singh AS; K A
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN CONTROL NETW ICAC3N
PY 2021
AB the sole and main idea behind this project is that we have a plenty of
   options to find recipes for cooking dishes but getting a recipe according to
   ingredients available in our kitchen is what all we need . taking an example
   of lock down the hidden cook of everyone comes out but due to lock down
   availability of ingredients is limited and we have to do a lot of search to
   get the recipes according to availability of ingredients . we decided to
   implement this idea in form of website so that any user can easily enter the
   available ingredients and get recipes corresponding to the ingredients
   available . for website we use html and css for designing and javascript as
   a scripting language . we use recipepuppy api [ 1 ] for the database of
   recipes and ingredientsthis website will make our life easier by saving the
   time of doing research to find the correct recipe according to available
   ingredients and will suggest some really awesome recipes for the same and we
   can utilize that time in other works . and if in case you missed some of the
   minor ingredients you can that in your shopping list in just one click
DE api; css; html; recipepuppy
ID cooking; html; api; css; javascript; recipepuppy; scripting languages;
   shopping lists; websites

---

UT 664
AR Lapaev M, 2016, CONF OPEN INNOV ASSOC FRUCT, V2016-September, P153, DOI
   10.1109/FRUCT-ISPIT.2016.7561521
TI Automated extraction of concept matcher thesaurus from semi-structured
   catalogue-like sources of data on the web
AU Lapaev M
TC 1
SO CONF OPEN INNOV ASSOC FRUCT
PY 2016
AB ontology design and the process of populating a data set with knowledge
   following the chosen or developed ontology to fit the principles of semantic
   web and linked open data is a time consuming and iterative process ,
   requiring either expert knowledge or a set of tools for data scraping from
   web . a valid and consistent ontology and knowledge withing the data set
   require unification of concepts which means overcoming ambiguity and
   synonymy of terms which become individuals of ontology . in this paper we
   spot on techniques used for organizing a russian food product data set under
   a light weight food ontology and concept matching in particular . main
   approaches to data set concept unification , synonymic term matching and
   ways to collect dictionaries for matcher are mentioned . the tool for
   catalogue like semi structured resources parsing and thesaurus extraction is
   developed and introduced for the task of on the fly concept matching . 2016
   fruct .
ID extraction; innovation; iterative methods; security of data; thesauri;
   automated extraction; concept matching; expert knowledge; iterative process;
   linked open datum; ontology design; semistructured; thesaurus extraction;
   semantic web

---

UT 665
AR Wen Y, 2026, TEI - PROC INT CONF TANGIBLE EMBED EMBODIED INTERACT, DOI
   10.1145/3731459.3779326
TI PufFab: Making Shape Transformable Rice Paper for Playful Food Fabrication
AU Wen Y; Ge Y; Tong X; He L
TC 0
SO TEI - PROC INT CONF TANGIBLE EMBED EMBODIED INTERACT
PY 2026
AB we demonstrate puffab , an interactive design to fabrication pipeline that
   enables customizable edible shape transformation using vietnamese rice paper
   . the pipeline combines a user interface with a modified 3d printer to allow
   users to customize and fabricate 2d patterns that transform into 3d
   structures when fried . users can modify rice paper through two distinct
   manipulation techniques : moistening , which locally softens and flattens
   the material resulting in reduced expansion and controlled shrinkage during
   frying and cutting , which introduces appearance differences and structural
   discontinuities that because the paper to curve or deform along edges . when
   fried , the rice paper morphs according to the pattern because of its unique
   material response to heat and hydration . our preliminary work explores an
   accessible and culturally grounded approach to human food interaction and
   demonstrates new possibilities for customizable computational gastronomy ,
   playful edible interaction , and artistic food transformation
DE fabrication; human food interaction; parametric design; shape-changing food
ID computer aided design; human computer interaction; human engineering;
   interactive computer graphics; paper; structural design; user interfaces; 2d
   patterns; 3d structure; customizable; human food interactions; interactive
   design; manipulation techniques; parametric design; shape transformation;
   shape-changing food; vietnamese; fabrication

---

UT 666
AR Shi Y/1, 2026, AGRIC SYST, V235, DOI 10.1016/j.agsy.2026.104702
TI Future food demand and agricultural land degradation in emerging economies:
   A spatial systems diagnosis from BRICS-plus
AU Shi Y/1; Jin X; Liang X; Han B; Zhou Y
TC 0
SO AGRIC SYST
PY 2026
AB context : rapid urbanization and dietary transitions are continuously
   intensifying food demand in emerging economies , raising urgent concerns
   about the long term sustainability of agricultural systems . if land
   degradation risks are overlooked , future national food security targets may
   become difficult to achieve due to biophysical constraints . objective : to
   develop a spatially explicit diagnostic framework linking national scale
   food demand trajectories with the biophysical feasibility of future major
   food producing areas across brics plus economies , in order to identify
   where demand driven production may exceed land system constraints . methods
   : macroeconomic food demand projections from the global trade analysis
   project energy ( gtap e ) model were integrated with an inverse mode
   artificial neural network to estimate two key cropland suitability
   constraints : soil organic carbon ( soc ) and drainage class . these
   constraints were further combined with a process based erosion model adapted
   from the revised universal soil loss equation ( rusle ) . by overlaying
   future major food producing areas with erosion intensity and soc / drainage
   thresholds , an ex post feasibility assessment of demand driven expansion
   under land degradation constraints was conducted . results and conclusions :
   the inversion model demonstrates strong predictive performance ( r2 = 0.9675
   for soc . r2 = 0.8322 for drainage ) . results indicate that approximately
   17.46 % of future major food producing areas are subject to biophysical
   constraints and are unlikely to sustain stable production , corresponding to
   a potential food supply loss of approximately 1.3 billion tons . severe
   erosion hotspots ( > 100 t ha1 yr1 ) spatially coincide with high demand
   driven production areas in brazil , india , china , and ethiopia ,
   indicating substantial feasibility losses in key food producing regions .
   significance : by explicitly coupling food system demand trajectories with
   land degradation related biophysical thresholds , this study demonstrates
   that erosion risk is not merely an environmental outcome but a key
   constraint determining whether future food demand can be sustainably met .
   the proposed framework supports spatially differentiated land use governance
   , prioritization of ecological restoration , and demand side interventions (
   e . g . , dietary diversification and reduction of post harvest losses ) ,
   and provides a transferable tool for aligning agricultural development
   objectives with ecological limits in rapidly transforming economies
DE emerging economies; food demand forecasting; land degradation risk; spatial
   modeling; sustainable intensification

---

UT 667
AR Ortiz KJP, 2023, CHEM ENG TRANS, V106, P361, DOI 10.3303/CET23106061
TI Recipe Recommendation System Using IoT-Based Food Inventory Management of
   Perishables for Household Food Waste Reduction
AU Ortiz KJP; Bautista PNP; Dimailig MVD; Llamzon ACD
TC 4
SO CHEM ENG TRANS
PY 2023
AB one of the most pressing worldwide issues is food waste . food waste has
   increased dramatically as a result of population growth , fast urbanization
   combined with industrial development , and changes in lifestyles and
   economic positions . the study aims to develop a food inventory management
   and recipe recommendation system for perishable items stored in the
   refrigerator to lessen the food waste generated within a household . the
   system consists of a camera module , load cell , raspberry pi microcomputer
   , and a mobile application . the automatic addition of perishable items uses
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) for classifying fruits and vegetables
   through transfer learning method . milk and meat products are manually added
   to the inventory . the mobile application is used for viewing the inventory
   , expiration of perishable items , and recipe recommendation . the recipe
   recommendation is based on the expiration and availability of perishable
   items to reduce household food waste . according to the gathered data , the
   precision of different classes of the fruit and vegetable model ranges from
   around 71 % up to 80 % in terms of its recall values , while the accuracy of
   the model is evaluated at 74 % . the recipe recommendation system was able
   to fully utilize the recorded perishables roughly 81 % of the time . for
   food waste reduction , a daily average of 108.4 g of perishable food waste ,
   including food peels , leftovers , and expired ingredients , has been
   reduced to 71.53 g , which accounts for about a 30 % decrease . the results
   show how the recipe recommendation system contributes to reducing household
   generated food waste

---

UT 668
AR Hu M/2, 2025, ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL, V21, DOI
   10.1145/3766065
TI Health-oriented Multimodal Food Question Answering with Implicit and
   Explicit Knowledge
AU Hu M/2; Song Y/3; Yang X/1; Wang Y/14; Xu C/1
TC 1
SO ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL
PY 2025
AB health oriented food analysis has become a research hotspot in recent years
   because it can help people keep away from unhealthy diets . remarkable
   advancements have been made in recipe retrieval , food recommendation ,
   nutrition analysis , and calorie estimation . however , existing works still
   can not well balance the individual preference and the health . multimodal
   food question and answering ( mfqa ) presents substantial promise for
   practical applications , yet it remains underexplored . in this article , we
   introduce a health oriented mfqa dataset with 9,000 chinese question answer
   pairs based on a multimodal food knowledge graph ( mfkg ) collected from a
   food sharing web site . additionally , we propose a novel framework for mfqa
   in the health domain that leverages implicit general knowledge and explicit
   domain specific knowledge . the framework comprises four key components :
   implicit general knowledge injection module ( igkim ) , explicit domain
   specific knowledge retrieval module ( edkrm ) , ranking module , and answer
   module . the igkim facilitates knowledge acquisition at both the feature and
   text levels . the edkrm retrieves the most relevant candidate knowledge from
   the knowledge graph based on the given question . the ranking module sorts
   the results retrieved by edkrm and further retrieve candidate knowledge
   relevant to the problem . subsequently , the answer module thoroughly
   analyzes the multimodal information in the query along with the retrieved
   relevant knowledge to predict accurate answers . extensive experimental
   results on the mfqa dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed
   method . the code and dataset are available at 2025 held by the owner /
   author ( s ) . publication rights licensed to acm .
DE food analysis; health; knowledge representation
ID domain knowledge; human engineering; information retrieval; knowledge graph;
   knowledge management; knowledge transfer; nutrition; question answering;
   domain-specific knowledge; explicit knowledge; food analysis; general
   knowledge; implicit knowledge; knowledge graphs; knowledge retrieval;
   knowledge representation; multi-modal; question answering; graphic methods

---

UT 669
AR Jiomekong A, 2023, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1907 CCIS, P89, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-47997-7_7
TI Food Composition Knowledge Extraction from Scientific Literature
AU Jiomekong A; Folefac M; Tapamo H
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2023
AB adequate nutrition is an essential catalyst for economic and human
   development as well as for achieving sustainable development goals ( goal 2
   and goal 3 ) . thus , understanding food composition ( stored in food
   composition tables ) can allow people to have a healthy diet and avoid
   overnutrition and undernutrition which are because of lots of health
   problems . food composition tables ( fct ) or food composition databases (
   fcd ) contains the food we eat and what it contains . it is built by using
   chemical analysis to determine the different composition and structure of
   foods . however , the chemical analysis of food requires significant
   financial resources and skilled laboratory investigators . these resources
   are not always available . given that many fct are stored in scientific
   papers related to food , nutrition , food chemistry , etc . in the form of
   tables , we propose in this paper to extract these knowledge for the purpose
   of building food composition tables . the latter can therefore be used for
   food recommendation , ingredient substitution , etc . to demonstrate the
   relevance of the knowledge extracted , we invited one domain expert for
   validation . on the other hand , we compared an excerpt of the knowledge
   extracted to several biomedical ontologies , food ontologies and we matched
   some elements extracted to foodon ontology and wikidata knowledge graph
DE food and food components; food composition tables; knowledge extraction;
   learning food composition knowledge; ontology learning; scientific
   literature
ID data mining; extraction; ontology; composition tables; food and food
   component; food components; food composition table; food compositions;
   knowledge extraction; learning food composition knowledge; ontology
   learning; scientific literature; nutrition

---

UT 670
AR Norouzi S, 2018, ARCH IRAN MED, V21, P466
TI A mobile application for managing diabetic patients’ nutrition: A food
   recommender system
AU Norouzi S; Ghalibaf AK; Sistani S; Banazadeh V; Keykhaei F; Zareishargh P;
   Amiri F; Nematy M; Etminani K
TC 44
SO ARCH IRAN MED
PY 2018
AB background : as a prevalent metabolic disease , diabetes has different side
   effects and causes a wide range of co morbidity with a high rate of
   mortality . there is a need for certain interventions to manage this disease
   . iranians usually have three main meals a day . considering the special
   needs of diabetic patients and the possibility of hypoglycemia between the
   main meals , it is essential for these patients to eat something as a snack
   . considering these conditions and the society s orientation toward modern
   technologies such as smart phones , designing mobile based nutrition
   recommender systems can be helpful . methods : the snack recommender system
   is a knowledge based smart phone application . this study has focused on the
   development of a recommender system that combines artificial intelligence
   techniques and makes up a knowledge base according to the guidelines posed
   by the american diabetes association ( ada ) . the snack menu was
   recommended in accordance with the patient s favorites and conditions . the
   accuracy of the recommended menu was assessed in 2 steps . first , it was
   compared with the diet prescribed by three nutrition specialists . in the
   second step , system s suggested menu was evaluated by the data from 30
   diabetic patients using a valid questionnaire . results : the results of
   evaluating the snack recommender system by nutritionists showed that this
   system is capable of recommending various snacks according to the season (
   accuracy of 100 % ) and personal interests ( accuracy of 90 % ) to diabetic
   patients . according to health nutritionists , the snacks suggested by this
   system are matched with iranian culture . moreover , the results revealed
   that a higher body mass index ( bmi ) makes the recommender system less
   sensitive to personal interests to suggest what is basically beneficial for
   one s health . conclusion : this study was a pioneering research to develop
   a more comprehensive dietary recommender system for diabetic patients which
   includes main meals as well . patients found the system useful and were
   satisfied with the application . this system is believed to be able to help
   diabetic patients to take more healthy diet which leads to a better
   lifestyle
DE diabetes; recommender system; roulette wheel algorithm
ID adult; aged; algorithms; diabetes mellitus type-2; energy intake; feeding
   behavior; female; healthy diet; humans; iran; male; middle aged; mobile
   applications; smartphone; surveys and questionnaires; meglitinide;
   sulfonylurea; adult; algorithm; apple; article; basal metabolic rate; body
   mass; calorie; cantaloupe; clinical article; diabetic patient; dietary
   intake; dietitian; energy expenditure; fast food; feeding behavior; female;
   food intake; glycemic index; healthy diet; human; knowledge base;
   macronutrient; male; milk; mobile application; non insulin dependent
   diabetes mellitus; nutrition; obesity; orange ( fruit ); physical activity;
   pilot study; practice guideline; questionnaire; scoring system; waist
   circumference; aged; caloric intake; evaluation study; iran; middle aged;
   procedures; smartphone

---

UT 671
AR Phoka T, 2026, APPL SCI, V16, DOI 10.3390/app16010117
TI An LLM–MCDM Framework with Lin’s Concordance Correlation Coefficient for
   Recommendation Systems: A Case Study in Food Preference
AU Phoka T; Wathahong T; Boriwan P
TC 1
SO APPL SCI
PY 2026
AB food recommender systems are pivotal in helping people make optimal dietary
   choices based on tremendous amounts of data . extant studies offer different
   methods and techniques , but the combination of similarity search , large
   language models ( llms ) , and multi criteria decision making ( mcdm )
   remains underexplored . this study proposes a new system that leverages all
   three . first , we utilize an llm to suggest queries from the same domain as
   the dish database . then , the queries are vectorized and used for
   similarity search to generate a preliminary list of suggested menu items .
   next , multiple llms provide scores for each item , which become the mcdm
   inputs , where lin s concordance correlation coefficient ( lccc ) enhances
   the weighted sum scalarization technique . we evaluated the prototype on
   three publicly available dish datasets and at classification thresholds of
   0.25 , 0.50 , and 0.75 , and the proposed domain adaptation approach
   consistently outperformed the baseline query . for example , at the 0.50
   threshold , precision ranged from 49.11 % to 56.60 % , compared with 35.40 %
   for the baseline . furthermore , aggregating multiple llms mitigates single
   model bias in recommendations . to substantiate this , a bootstrap
   evaluation of the proposed lccc based consensus weighting confirms that both
   the estimated weights and the induced rankings are numerically stable under
   sampling perturbations . to further ensure the robustness and reliability of
   the proposed system , we validate the results against other established
   weighting schemes and state of the art mcdm methods . moreover , kendall s (
   formula presented . ) -based comparisons across weighting schemes and
   multiple mcdm methods confirm that the proposed lccc based framework
   produces highly consistent and statistically significant rankings ,
   demonstrating strong robustness to methodological choices . this paper
   contributes a system architecture and design that can be adopted for other
   domains of recommender systems where the capability of multiple llms can
   benefit complex and multifaceted decision making processes
DE food recommender system; large language model; multi-criteria decision
   making; similarity search
ID behavioral research; classification ( of information ); computer
   architecture; query languages; query processing; recommender systems; search
   engines; correlation coefficient; food recommender system; language model;
   large language model; multi-criteria decision making; multi-criteria
   decision making methods; multi-criteria decision making; multicriterion
   decision makings; similarity search; weighting scheme; article;
   bootstrapping; case study; correlation coefficient; data base; decision
   making; diagnosis; food preference; large language model; multi-criteria
   decision analysis; reliability; decision making

---

UT 672
AR Kumar M/1, 2025, PROC INT CONF SOFT COMPUT SECUR APPL ICSCSA, P1106, DOI
   10.1109/ICSCSA66339.2025.11171212
TI Food Demand Forecasting using Machine Learning Approaches
AU Kumar M/1; Pilania U; Dagar D
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF SOFT COMPUT SECUR APPL ICSCSA
PY 2025
AB with demand forecasting we can predict in how much amount consumer or
   customer need the product . the business will not function well without well
   defined demand forecasting . inadequate future demand forecasting could
   leads to loss of money and wastage of food . there are several techniques of
   artificial intelligence and machine learning which could be utilized for
   prediction of food demand . authors in the proposed work applied machine
   learning techniques include logistic regression , decision tree , random
   forest , extreme gradient boosting , k nearest neighbors , gaussian naive
   bayes , and linear discriminant analysis for prediction of food demand . for
   validation of the proposed work authors have calculated accuracy , variance
   , and error for all the models . the proposed models are also compared and
   it has been concluded that linear discriminant analysis performed well in
   terms of accuracy which was calculated to be 71.9 % . in future authors will
   try same models on different datasets for generalization
DE decision tree ( dt ); extreme gradient boosting ( xgboost ); food demand
   forecasting; gaussian naive bayes ( gaussiannb ); k-nearest neighbors ( knn
   ); linear discriminant analysis ( lda ); logistic regression ( lr ); random
   forest ( rf )
ID barium compounds; big data; decision trees; forecasting; gaussian
   distribution; information systems; intelligent systems; learning systems;
   logistic regression; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; pattern
   recognition; random forests; signal processing; decision tree; demand
   forecasting; extreme gradient boosting ( xgboost ); food demand; food demand
   forecasting; gaussian naive baye; gaussians; gradient boosting; k-near
   neighbor; linear discriminant analyze; logistic regression; logistics
   regressions; naive bayes; nearest-neighbour; random forest; random forests;
   discriminant analysis

---

UT 673
AR Ratul MSS, 2025, IEEE INT CONF QUANTUM PHOTONICS ARTIF INTELL NETW QPAIN,
   DOI 10.1109/QPAIN66474.2025.11171792
TI Machine Learning-Powered Personalized Food Recommendation System for
   Diabetic Patients
AU Ratul MSS; Rahman MM; Siddique MM; Anney NJ; Adnan MN; Galib SM
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF QUANTUM PHOTONICS ARTIF INTELL NETW QPAIN
PY 2025
AB the international diabetes federation ( idf ) predicts that the number of
   people affected by diabetes will rise to 552 million by 2030 , underscoring
   the growing global burden of this habitual condition . in this paper , we
   propose a machine learning powered personalized food recommendation system
   designed for diabetic patients . the system combines user food preferences
   with nutritional needs to deliver personalized dietary recommendations that
   promote effective blood sugar control . the methodology employs fuzzy wuzzy
   and cosine similarity as similarity analysis methods , combined with
   multiple machine learning algorithms , including decision tree , k nearest
   neighbors , support vector machine , logistic regression , and naive bayes .
   the system was developed using a dataset that contains 16,832 food samples
   with nutritional information . after preprocessing and refinement , a total
   of 1,000 valid samples were retained for subsequent analysis . performance
   evaluation revealed that ensemble methods significantly enhanced model
   accuracy , with decision tree ( bagging ) achieving the highest accuracy of
   82.5 % and an f1-score of 0.826. this study offers practical benefits to
   diabetic patients by providing them with tailored food recommendations that
   cater to both their nutritional needs and personal preferences
DE diabetes; food recommendation; glucose control; machine learning;
   personalized nutrition
ID barium compounds; decision trees; information systems; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; logistic regression; nearest neighbor search; nutrition;
   support vector regression; blood sugars; condition; diabetics patients; food
   preference; food recommendation; glucose control; machine learning; number
   of peoples; personalized nutrition; sugar control; medical problems

---

UT 674
AR Ramachandran A, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT INNOV ENG SUSTAIN ICCIES, DOI
   10.1109/ICCIES63851.2025.11032981
TI Smart Fridge with Personalized Recipe Recommendation system
AU Ramachandran A; Manjula V
TC 1
SO INT CONF COMPUT INNOV ENG SUSTAIN ICCIES
PY 2025
AB this work intends to create a smart recipe recommendation system that makes
   use of deep learning and computer vision technologies to recognize and
   categorize veggies in a user s refrigerator to address these issues . the
   system will employ an esp32 camera module to take live photographs of the
   vegetables to precisely identify and classify each vegetable . these images
   will then be loaded into a deep learning yolov9 model which is integrated
   with app . the app will offer recipe suggestions based on the user s tastes
   and nutritional needs when the algorithm has identified the vegetables in
   the refrigerator . the users can tailor their nutritional needs , such as
   veganism , gluten free eating , or other preferences through the app . the
   software will suggest meals that fit the user s preferences based on the
   available vegetables , reducing food waste , and enhancing healthy meal
   preparation . the app will allow users to generate shopping lists based on
   the products they already have and the dishes they intend to make , in
   addition to offering personalized recipe ideas
DE dietary planning; food waste reduction; object detection; personalized
   recipe; yolov9
ID deep learning; food ingredients; food waste; nutrition; object recognition;
   recommender systems; refrigerators; vegetables; camera modules; computer
   vision technology; dietary planning; food waste; food waste reduction;
   gluten-free; objects detection; personalized recipe; waste reduction;
   yolov9; object detection

---

UT 675
AR Sharifmousavi M, 2024, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V232, P211, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2024.01.021
TI Distributed Artificial Intelligence Application in Agri-food Supply Chains
   4.0
AU Sharifmousavi M; Kayvanfar V; Baldacci R
TC 25
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB supply chain 4.0 is characterized by various factors , including seamless
   integration and connectivity , the internet of things ( iot ) , big data ,
   ai participation , cyber physical systems ( cpss ) , flexibility ,
   adaptability , and customer centricity across different parts of the supply
   chain . the application of distributed ai ( dai ) systems like multi agent
   systems ( mas ) opens new horizons to enhance the efficiency ,
   responsiveness , and intelligence of these supply chains . dai facilitates
   advanced autonomous decision making and real time optimization at different
   stages of the agri food supply chain , such as demand forecasting ,
   inventory management , production planning , logistics optimization , and
   quality assurance and control . this article , by focusing on the case of
   scheduling through the entire supply chain , examines how dai initiatives ,
   including multi agent systems ( mass ) enhanced with case based reasoning (
   cbr ) , enable the distribution of intelligence across smart ,
   interconnected elements of the supply chain network . it is shown that
   through the use of dai in scm , the performance of the entire supply chain
   optimizes consistently and adaptively through the use of mas , in which
   different parts of scm collaborate as agents . supply chain 4.0 can gain
   autonomy , self organization , self optimization , self adaptation ,
   robustness , and flexibility , and its knowledge base can be enriched over
   time by using cbr to learn from past situations . it also discusses the
   opportunities and challenges associated with the adoption of dai in supply
   chain 4.0 , including operational efficiency , cost reduction , agility
   enhancement , and improved customer satisfaction . however , several
   concerns , such as data security , privacy issues , and interoperability ,
   must be addressed
DE agri-food supply chain; case based reasoning ( cbr ); distributed artificial
   intelligence ( dai ); multi-agent systems ( mass ); supply chain 40
ID case based reasoning; cost reduction; customer satisfaction; decision
   making; decision support systems; embedded systems; internet of things;
   knowledge based systems; multi-agent systems; production control; production
   efficiency; quality assurance; quality control; real time systems;
   reinforcement learning; agri-food supply chains; case based reasoning; case
   based reasonings ( cbr ); cybe-physical systems; distributed artificial
   intelligence; multi-agent system; seamless connectivity; seamless
   integration; supply chain 40; supply chains

---

UT 676
AR Eftimov T, 2018, IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG,
   V1, P315, DOI 10.5220/0006951703150322
TI The RICHFIELDS framework for semantic interoperability of food information
   across heterogenous information systems
AU Eftimov T; Ispirova G; Korošec P; Seljak BK/1
TC 4
SO IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG
PY 2018
AB in an eu funded project richfields , a data platform was designed with the
   aim to collect , link and harmonize , analyze , store , and deliver food and
   nutrition related data and information to various stakeholders . to
   integrate heterogenous food data sets , we propose a richfields framework
   for semantic interoperability of food information , which is a combination
   of already developed nlp approaches for the food domain . the framework
   includes i ) a food ontology to which foods are linked , ii ) a part that
   explains how the relevant foods can be extracted and represented in a
   structured way , and iii ) a similarity measure that is used to link the
   foods to the ontology . to evaluate the richfields framework , we selected
   two distinct data sets from different food information systems . the
   experimental results provided promising results , i . e . , 81.5 % and 87.5
   % of the foods from the first and the second data set , respectively ,
   obtained a tag from the ontology ( i . e . , semantic annotation was
   performed ) . the annotations provided by the framework allow automatic
   integration of food information provided in both data sets
DE food information; ontology population; richfields ontology; semantic
   annotation; semantic interoperability
ID information systems; information use; knowledge engineering; knowledge
   management; ontology; semantics; data and information; data platform;
   dataset; food ontology; ontology population; semantic annotations; semantic
   interoperability; similarity measure; interoperability

---

UT 677
AR Balloccu G, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2470 CCIS, P52, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-87654-7_5
TI Knowledge Data Modeling in Food Recommendation: A Case Study on Nutritional
   Values
AU Balloccu G; Boratto L; Fenu G; Marras M; Medda G; Murgia G
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB domains such as movie or music , typically addressed in recommendation
   studies , focus on suggesting items that do not need thorough analysis to
   estimate their social impact , with the main goal often being to increase
   sales . conversely , recommending items with higher social involvement ,
   such as insurances and food , requires the introduction of specific
   constraints , including socioeconomic , sustainability , and healthiness
   considerations . in this paper , we address the intricate domain of food
   recommendation , focusing on analyzing the nutritional intake of food
   recipes suggested by automatic systems . we base our investigation on a
   public user recipe knowledge graph , which embeds information about
   ingredients , nutrients , and healthiness scores of food recipes . our
   experiments highlight the importance of assessing factors beyond accuracy in
   food recommendation and opens discussions about the complexity in
   interpreting nutritional intake based solely on raw values
DE food recommendation; healthiness; knowledge graphs; nutrition; recommender
   systems
ID economics; food chemistry; food ingredients; knowledge graph; nutrition;
   automatic systems; case-studies; food recommendation; healthiness; knowledge
   graphs; nutritional value; social impact; socio-economics; recommender
   systems

---

UT 678
AR Ge M, 2015, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, V2015-May, P105, DOI
   10.1145/2750511.2750528
TI Using tags and latent factors in a food recommender system
AU Ge M; Elahi M; Fernández-Tobías I; Ricci F; Massimo D
TC 112
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2015
AB due to the extensive growth of food varieties , making better and healthier
   food choices becomes more and more complex . most of the current food
   suggestion applications offer just generic advices that are not tailored to
   the user s personal taste . to tackle this issue , we propose in this paper
   a novel food recommender system that provides high quality and personalized
   recipe suggestions . these recommendations are generated by leveraging a
   data set of users preferences expressed in the form of users ratings and
   tags , which signal the food s ingredients or features that the users like .
   our empirical evaluation shows that the proposed recommendation technique
   significantly outperforms state of the art algorithms . we have found that
   using tags in food recommendation algorithms can significantly increase the
   prediction accuracy , i . e . , the match of the predicted preferences with
   the true user s preferred recipes . furthermore , our user study shows that
   our system prototype is of high usability
DE food; matrix factorization; recommender systems; smart health; tags
ID factorization; food products; health; empirical evaluations; matrix
   factorizations; prediction accuracy; recommendation algorithms;
   recommendation techniques; state of the art algorithms; system prototype;
   tags; recommender systems

---

UT 679
AR El Majjodi A, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P123002, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3588663
TI Integrating Digital Food Nudges and Recommender Systems: Current Status and
   Future Directions
AU El Majjodi A; Starke AD; Trattner C
TC 2
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB recommender systems are widely regarded as effective tools for facilitating
   the discovery of relevant content . in the food domain , they help users
   find recipes , choose grocery products , and generate meal suggestions .
   while they address the challenge of choice overload , their direct influence
   on promoting healthier food choices remains limited . digital nudges could
   further assist in guiding users toward healthier decisions , enhancing the
   accessibility and visibility of healthy options when integrated into a
   recommender system . this review examines to what extent food recommender
   systems have so far successfully incorporated digital nudges for healthy
   food promotion and which challenges still remain . we present a
   classification and analysis of various digital nudging strategies employed
   for this purpose , as well as opportunities for future research . we
   emphasize that various nudging techniques have the potential to support
   users in making healthier food choices within food recommender systems .
   furthermore , user centric evaluations represent the most effective approach
   for assessing the performance of these systems
DE digital nudging; food choices; food recommender systems; health; online
   decision making; personalization
ID decision making; digital integrated circuits; food ingredients; recommender
   systems; analysis of various; current status; digital nudging; effective
   tool; food choice; food recommender system; healthy foods; online decision
   makings; online decision making; personalizations; online systems

---

UT 680
AR Dadi V, 2021, PORD ENG ARCH, V27, P75, DOI 10.30657/pea.2021.27.10
TI Agri-food 4.0 and innovations: Revamping the supply chain operations
AU Dadi V; Nikhil SR; Mor RS; Agarwal T; Arora S/1
TC 80
SO PORD ENG ARCH
PY 2021
AB the agri food sector contributes significantly to economic and social
   advancements globally despite numerous challenges such as food safety and
   security , demand and supply gaps , product quality , traceability , etc .
   digital technologies offer effective and sustainable ways to these
   challenges through reduced human interference and improved data accuracy .
   innovations led by digital transformations in the agri food supply chains (
   afscs ) are the main aim of 'agri food 4.0 . this brings significant
   transformations in the agri food sector by reducing food wastage , real time
   product monitoring , reducing scalability issues , etc . this paper presents
   a systematic review of the innovations in the agri food for digital
   technologies such as internet of things , artificial intelligence , big data
   , rfid , robotics , block chain technology , etc . the employment of these
   technologies from the farm to fork along afsc emphasizes a review of 159
   articles solicited from different sources . this paper also highlights
   digitization in developing smart , sensible , and sustainable agri food
   supply chain systems . 2021 vasavi dadi et al . , published by sciendo .
DE agri-food industry; artificial intelligence ( ai ); digital technologies;
   innovations; internet of things ( iot )

---

UT 681
AR Maretto V, 2025, IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW, P623, DOI
   10.1109/ICDMW69685.2025.00076
TI Azzurra: A Proof-of-Concept Avatar to Smoothly Interact with the
   Encyclopedia of Italian Cuisine
AU Maretto V; Cargiani S; Antonazzi F; Mambella M; Giampaolo A; Ferraro M;
   Ruggeri S
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW
PY 2025
AB preserving cultural culinary heritage requires innovative approaches that
   balance scientific accuracy and public accessibility . this work presents
   azzurra , a conversational digital avatar that democratizes access to
   traditional italian culinary knowledge through multimodal artificial
   intelligence . azzurra integrates photorealistic neural rendering , large
   language models , and a knowledge base validated by the encyclopedia of
   italian cuisine ( eci ) developed by crea food and nutrition research center
   . the system implements a knowledge grounded conversational ai paradigm that
   combines anthropomorphic visual representation and domain specific natural
   language understanding to deliver scientifically accurate and engaging
   dialog experiences . the hybrid architecture uses out of the box ( oob )
   technologies ( heygen , chatgpt ) orchestrated through custom layers that
   anchor responses to nutritional and cultural data . the system supports web
   and holographic deployments , with the latter demonstrating engagement
   during validation at the agricoltura e event in rome . innovations include :
   structured prompt engineering with data , multi level conversational
   guardrails for the nutritional domain , scalable multimodal architecture ,
   and proven effectiveness in making complex nutritional information
   accessible . qualitative validation reveals strong user engagement and
   perceived scientific reliability . the work outlines future evolutions to
   overcome oob limitations through semantic knowledge graphs , advanced rag ,
   intelligent personalization , innovative interaction modes , and temporal
   mining . azzurra demonstrates the feasibility of conversational ai for
   cultural preservation , establishing a methodological framework for unesco
   intangible heritage and contributing to active preservation through
   interaction
DE computational gastronomy; conversational ai; cultural heritage preservation;
   digital avatar; italian cuisine; neural rendering
ID food preservation; human computer interaction; interactive computer
   graphics; knowledge based systems; knowledge management; nutrition;
   rendering ( computer graphics ); semantics; software architecture;
   computational gastronomy; conversational ai; cultural heritage preservation;
   digital avatar; innovative approaches; italian cuisine; multi-modal; neural
   rendering; photo-realistic; proof of concept; historic preservation

---

UT 682
AR Tian S, 2023, SUSTAIN FOOD SYST, V7, DOI 10.3389/fsufs.2023.1189451
TI Emergency regional food supply chain design and its labor demand forecasting
   model: application to COVID-19 pandemic disruption
AU Tian S; Mei Y
TC 4
SO SUSTAIN FOOD SYST
PY 2023
AB the covid 19 pandemic has severely disrupted the global food supply chain
   through various interventions , such as city closures , traffic restrictions
   , and silent management . limited research has been conducted on the design
   of emergency regional food supply chains ( erfsc ) and its labor demand
   forecasting under government mandated interventions . this paper applies
   emergency supply chain management theory to analyze the business processes
   of the erfsc and proposes a multi level erfsc network tailored to different
   risk levels . additionally , a food demand forecasting model and a
   mathematical model for stochastic labor demand planning are constructed
   based on the development trend of regional epidemics . an empirical analysis
   is presented using huaguoyuan , guiyang , china , as an example . the
   results demonstrate that the proposed erfsc design and its labor demand
   forecasting model can achieve secure supply and accurate distribution of
   necessities in regions with different risk levels . these findings have
   important policy and research implications for the government and
   practitioners to take interventions and actions to ensure food supply for
   residents in the context of city closure or silent management . this study
   serves as a pilot study that will be further extended by the authors from
   geographical and policy perspectives
DE covid-19; emergency regional food supply chain ( erfsc ); end-delivery
   services; interchange state; labor demand forecasting; necessities; public
   health emergencies

---

UT 683
AR Wang J/6, 2023, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V13833 LNCS, P191, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-27077-2_15
TI Health-Oriented Multimodal Food Question Answering
AU Wang J/6; Hu M/2; Song Y/3; Yang X/1
TC 2
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB health oriented food analysis has become a research hotspot in recent years
   because it can help people keep away from unhealthy diets . significant
   progress has been made in recipe retrieval , food recommendation , nutrition
   and calorie estimation . however , existing works still can not well balance
   the individual preference and the health . multimodal food question and
   answering ( q and a ) has a great potential in practical applications , but
   it is still not well studied . in this paper , we build a health oriented
   multimodal food q and a dataset ( mfqa ) with 9k question and answer pairs
   based on a multimodal food knowledge graph collected from a food sharing
   website . in addition , we propose a knowledge based multimodal food q and a
   framework , which consists of three important parts : encoder module ,
   retrieval module , and answer module . extensive experimental results on the
   mfqa dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method . the code and
   dataset are available at 2023 , the author ( s ) , under exclusive license
   to springer nature switzerland ag .
DE food analysis; health; multi-model q  and a
ID knowledge graph; calorie estimations; food analysis; hotspots; individual
   preference; knowledge based; knowledge graphs; multi-modal; multi-modelling;
   multi-model question and answering; question answering; nutrition

---

UT 684
AR Trattner C, 2019, CEUR WORK PROC, V2439, P24
TI An evaluation of recommendation algorithms for online recipe portals
AU Trattner C; Elsweiler D
TC 14
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2019
AB better models of food preferences are required to realize the oft touted
   potential of food recommenders to aid with the obesity crisis . many of the
   food recommender evaluations in the literature have been performed with
   small convenience samples , which limits our conidence in the
   generalisability of the results . in this work we test a range of
   collaborative iltering ( cf ) and content based ( cb ) recommenders on a
   large dataset crawled from the web consisting of naturalistic user
   interaction data over a 15 year period . the results reveal strengths and
   limitations of diferent approaches . while cf approaches consistently
   outperform cb approaches when testing on the complete dataset , our
   experiments show that to improve on cf methods require a large number of
   users ( > 637 when sampling randomly ) . moreover the results show diferent
   facets of recipe content to ofer utility . in particular one of the
   strongest content related features was a measure of health derived from
   guidelines from the uk food safety agency . this inding underlines the
   challenges we face as a community to develop recommender algorithms , which
   improve the healthfulness of the food people choose to eat . 2019 copyright
   for the individual papers remains with the authors . use permitted under
   creative commons license attribution 4.0 international ( cc by 4.0 ) .
DE online recipes; recommender systems
ID large dataset; nutrition; recommender systems; statistical tests; content-
   based; food preference; recommendation algorithms; recommender algorithms;
   user interaction; online systems

---

UT 685
AR Eashwar S, 2021, IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI, V775, DOI
   10.1088/1755-1315/775/1/012011
TI Evolution of Agritech Business 4.0 - Architecture and Future Research
   Directions
AU Eashwar S; Chawla P
TC 25
SO IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI
PY 2021
AB protection of farmer s welfare , improving their standard of living and
   maintaining the connect between urban and rural population are important for
   sustainable development . agriculture 4.0 based on industry 4.0 evolved to
   produce crops in different manner by applying new technologies , adopt
   emerging technologies to bring efficiency in food web , incorporate cross
   industry technologies and applications . agri food 4.0 is a survey based on
   industrial farming using advancements in blockchain , artificial
   intelligence , iot , big data . the challenge is to make the technologies
   interoperable and also to integrate agriculture production with food
   distribution network . in this research work , we propose to present the
   architecture of agritech business 4.0 , a transparent model to integrate
   agriculture production with food distribution network by adopting i4.0
   technologies . it is necessary to have a common framework that uses internet
   of things , smart dlt , big data analytics etc . thereby the communication
   between the technologies can be harnessed for better agricultural production
   , food security , transparency and decentralization . we have also presented
   few open research problems and future research directions in this paper
DE agriculture 40; artificial intelligence; blockchain; iot; sdg; smart
   distributed ledger technology; sustainability
ID advanced analytics; agricultural robots; artificial intelligence; big data;
   data analytics; food supply; network architecture; sustainable development;
   agricultural productions; agriculture productions; emerging technologies;
   food distribution; future research directions; research problems; standard
   of living; technologies and applications; agriculture

---

UT 686
AR Akkoyunlu S, 2018, CEUR WORK PROC, V2216, P46
TI Exploring eating behaviours modelling for user clustering
AU Akkoyunlu S; Manfredotti C; Cornuéjols A; Darcel N; Delaere F
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2018
AB food based dietary guidelines are not fully adopted by consumers . one of
   the principal explanations for this failure is that they are too general and
   do not take into account eating habits . experts in nutrition believe that
   providing personalized dietary recommendations via nutrition recommender
   system can help people improve their eating behaviors . understanding eating
   habits is a keystone in order to build a context aware recommender system
   that delivers personalized dietary recommendations . as a step toward this
   goal , we propose a method for representing food consumptions based on
   doc2vec for discovering clusters of eating behaviors . we compare our method
   to the state of the art methods used in the nutrition community . 2018 ceur
   ws
DE doc2vec; eating behaviors; food recommender systems; user modeling

---

UT 687
AR Bagozi A, 2026, DATA KNOWL ENG, V164, DOI 10.1016/j.datak.2026.102579
TI Ontology-enhanced RAG for a personalised and sustainable food advisory
   system
AU Bagozi A; Bianchini D; Garda M; Melchiori M; Rula A
TC 0
SO DATA KNOWL ENG
PY 2026
AB supporting consumers in making autonomous food choices that are sustainable
   and nutritionally complete is an increasingly complex task that must take
   into account several needs to foster eating habits of health conscious
   consumers , while reducing food waste and environmental impact . while
   generative ai and large language models ( llms ) show promising results in
   this domain due to their natural language processing capabilities , they
   suffer from critical limitations , including hallucinations , knowledge gaps
   , and limited ability to handle factual information . to mitigate such
   limitations , retrieval augmented generation ( rag ) , which retrieves
   relevant information from external sources to enhance the capabilities of
   llms , has shown effectiveness in many domains . however , existing rag
   approaches typically operate on unstructured text that lacks sophisticated
   symbolic representations of complex domain knowledge . this work proposes an
   ontology enhanced conversational food advisory system that integrates a
   modular ontology , named focosa ( food consumer oriented sustainability
   aware ) , within several key tasks of a rag based system , enhancing llm
   reasoning with domain knowledge , while simultaneously improving the
   interpretation of user requests , thus improving retrieval effectiveness and
   interaction fluidity . experimental evaluations demonstrate the efficacy of
   the approach , and the study concludes with guidelines for selecting
   appropriate settings for food recommendation scenarios considering the
   complexity of natural language queries and other contextual factors
DE bidirectional retrieval-augmented generation; consumer-oriented
   sustainability of food production; large language models; multi-perspective
   food ontology; ontology-enhanced food advisory system
ID food waste; natural language processing systems; sustainable development;
   advisory systems; bidirectional retrieval-augmented generation; consumer-
   oriented sustainability of food production; food ontology; food production;
   language model; large language model; multi-perspective; multi-perspective
   food ontology; ontologys; ontology-enhanced food advisory system; ontology

---

UT 688
AR Tan RP, 2025, INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL, V16, P395, DOI
   10.14569/IJACSA.2025.0160938
TI A Review of Attention-Enhanced GRU Models with STL Decomposition for Food
   Loss Forecasting
AU Tan RP; Lim SM; Leong KY; Lee SC; Liew SH; Chaw JK
TC 0
SO INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL
PY 2025
AB forecasting food loss with high accuracy is crucial for improving global
   food security , optimizing supply chains , and supporting sustainability
   goals . however , conventional time series models and standard deep learning
   techniques , including recurrent neural networks ( rnns ) , often fall short
   in handling the irregularity , seasonality , and complexity inherent in food
   loss data . while gated recurrent units ( grus ) offer advantages over
   traditional rnns , such as mitigating vanishing gradients , they still face
   limitations in modeling long range dependencies and noisy sequences . this
   paper reviews recent advancements aimed at overcoming these challenges by
   enhancing gru based models with attention mechanisms and seasonal trend
   decomposition using loess ( stl ) . evidence from related domains shows that
   attention mechanisms improve the capture of long term dependencies and
   interpretability , while stl decomposition strengthens stability and
   accuracy by isolating seasonal and trend components . hybrid gru models that
   combine both approaches consistently outperform standalone methods ,
   highlighting their promise for robust and interpretable forecasting . though
   underexplored in the context of food loss , this paper identifies the
   research gap and advocates for domain specific gruattentionstl architectures
   , offering a foundation for future empirical work to enable timely
   interventions and foster resilient , data driven food systems
DE attention mechanism; deep learning; food loss forecasting; gru; loess;
   seasonal decomposition; stl; time series
ID data handling; deep neural networks; food supply; forecasting; learning
   systems; recurrent neural networks; attention mechanisms; deep learning;
   food loss; food loss forecasting; gated recurrent unit; loess; neural
   networks; seasonal decomposition; stl; times series; time series

---

UT 689
AR Thianniwet T, 2025, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V432 SIST, P529, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-1154-6_35
TI The Personalized Food Recommendation System Framework for Type 2 Diabetes
AU Thianniwet T; Keawlamoon A; Phosaard S
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB type 2 diabetes is a global health concern due to its increasing prevalence
   among the global population . the number of diabetic patients has
   continuously increased over the past 21 years . the maintenance and
   treatment of diabetic patients take into account factors such as the
   duration of diabetes , food preferences , cultural considerations , and
   dietary restrictions . inadequate management of the dietary intake among
   individuals with diabetes may escalate to a more severe medical state . this
   work proposes a personalized food recommendation system framework ( foodrec
   f t2d ) . it suggests food menu based on both user and health contexts to
   prevent , maintain , and balance blood sugar levels for type 2 diabetic
   patients . the framework utilizes a context aware recommendation system with
   the post filtering concept . we evaluated the framework on 25 possible use
   cases based on health contexts using combinatorial interaction method . the
   results show the acceptability rate of 100 % and the accuracy ( simmacro )
   of 0.83 , on average
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; context-aware
   recommendation system; food recommendation system; hybrid recommendation
   system; personalized food recommendation system; type-2 diabetes
ID nutrition; patient treatment; recommender systems; content-based filtering;
   context-aware recommendation systems; diabetics patients; food
   recommendation system; global health; hybrid recommendation; hybrid
   recommendation system; personalized food recommendation system; system
   framework; type-2 diabetes; medical problems

---

UT 690
AR Singh R, 2023, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT56998.2023.10307080
TI Food Recommendation Systems Based On Content-based and Collaborative
   Filtering Techniques
AU Singh R; Dwivedi P
TC 21
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2023
AB on the internet , numerous options are available for a specific type of
   product . it is tough to manually go through every product in a particular
   type when a user is trying to choose the best one . because of this , manual
   searching is not very efficient . the recommendation system is crucial in
   recommending the best product in that situation . a food recommendation
   system is developed in this research paper using k nearest neighbor s
   methods . the food data set is taken from kaggle . we used python
   programming language to implement the system . our proposed recommendation
   system recommends food based on food name , food id , cuisine type , diet
   type like veg or non veg in the case of content based filtering
   recommendation . for recommending the food with help of collaborative
   filtering we have used user id , food id and rating as an attributes
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; food recommendation
   systems; k-nearest neighbors; recommender systems
ID motion compensation; nearest neighbor search; recommender systems;
   collaborative filtering techniques; content-based filtering; content-based;
   dataset; food recommendation system; k-nearest neighbors method; python
   programming language; research papers; user id; collaborative filtering

---

UT 691
AR Nfor KA, 2025, NUTR, V17, DOI 10.3390/nu17020362
TI An Explainable CNN and Vision Transformer-Based Approach for Real-Time Food
   Recognition
AU Nfor KA; Theodore Armand TP; Ismaylovna KP; Joo M-I; Kim H-C
TC 26
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB background : food image recognition , a crucial step in computational
   gastronomy , has diverse applications across nutritional platforms .
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) are widely used for this task due to
   their ability to capture hierarchical features . however , they struggle
   with long range dependencies and global feature extraction , which are vital
   in distinguishing visually similar foods or images where the context of the
   whole dish is crucial , thus necessitating transformer architecture .
   objectives : this research explores the capabilities of the cnns and
   transformers to build a robust classification model that can handle both
   short and long range dependencies with global features to accurately
   classify food images and enhance food image recognition for better
   nutritional analysis . methods : our approach , which combines cnns and
   vision transformers ( vits ) , begins with the restnet50 backbone model .
   this model is responsible for local feature extraction from the input image
   . the resulting feature map is then passed to the vit encoder block , which
   handles further global feature extraction and classification using multi
   head attention and fully connected layers with pre trained weights . results
   : our experiments on five diverse datasets have confirmed a superior
   performance compared to the current state of the art methods , and our
   combined dataset leveraging complementary features showed enhanced
   generalizability and robust performance in addressing global food diversity
   . we used explainable techniques like grad cam and lime to understand how
   the models made their decisions , thereby enhancing the user s trust in the
   proposed system . this model has been integrated into a mobile application
   for food recognition and nutrition analysis , offering features like an
   intelligent diet tracking system . conclusion : this research paves the way
   for practical applications in personalized nutrition and healthcare ,
   showcasing the extensive potential of ai in nutritional sciences across
   various dietary platforms
DE convolutional neural networks; explainability methods; food image
   recognition; personalized nutrition; vision transformers
ID food; humans; image processing computer-assisted; neural networks computer;
   accuracy; article; attention network; binocular convergence; chinese;
   convolutional neural network; embedding; explainable artificial
   intelligence; feature extraction; image processing; japanese ( people );
   multilayer perceptron; natural language processing; nutritional assessment;
   nutritional science; personalized nutrition; recall; reproducibility;
   transfer of learning; artificial neural network; food; human; procedures

---

UT 692
AR Makinei LV, 2022, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V5, P1038, DOI
   10.1016/j.crfs.2022.05.015
TI Flavour network-based analysis of food pairing: Application to the recipes
   of the sub-cuisines from Northeast India
AU Makinei LV; Hazarika MK
TC 10
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2022
AB the flavor network based analysis of food pairing was applied to the sub
   cuisines from northeast india to examine the food pairing behavior in terms
   of the co occurrence of ingredients with the shared flavoring compounds in
   food recipes . the method applied was based on an existing procedure in
   computational gastronomy , wherein the preference for positive pairing is
   attributed to dairy based ingredients and negative pairing behavior is
   attributed primarily to spice based ingredients . recipe data was subjected
   to backbone extraction , projection of the recipe ingredient compound tri
   partite network , and analysis for prevalence and authenticity of
   ingredients . further , the average flavor sharing index of the cuisine was
   determined with the help of the flavor profiles of the ingredients . the
   extent of deviation for the original cuisine in comparison to a random
   cuisine was used to determine the degree of bias in the food pairing
   behavior , with the sign as the indicator of the nature of pairing . the
   analysis identified the ingredients responsible to exhibit a positive or
   negative pairing pattern in the sub cuisines . the ingredients from the
   spice category were the most prevalent and have resulted in the negative
   pairing behavior in the cuisines . this role of spices in effecting a
   negative pairing behavior is in line with the earlier reports for other
   indian regional cuisines
DE computational gastronomy; flavor compounds; food pairing; ingredients;
   network theory; recipe
ID flavoring agent; food ingredient; algorithm; article; flavor; food; food
   pairing; food processing; medicinal plant; network analysis; nonhuman;
   prescription; prevalence; scientific literature; spice

---

UT 693
AR Kobayashi A, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF SEMANT COMPUT ICSC, P261, DOI
   10.1109/ICSC59802.2024.00048
TI Functional Food Knowledge Graph-based Recipe Recommendation System Focused
   on Lifestyle-Related Diseases
AU Kobayashi A; Mori S; Hashimoto A; Katsuragi T; Kawamura T
TC 8
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF SEMANT COMPUT ICSC
PY 2024
AB lifestyle related diseases can be reduced by making daily dietary choices .
   functional components in foods have the potential to provide benefits in
   this regard . we constructed a knowledge graph that connects the functional
   components of foods to recipes , and developed a recommendation system to
   suggest dishes that may help alleviate lifestyle related diseases . as
   dietary requirements vary widely depending on specific diseases and
   individual conditions , these requirements are combined to form a vast
   probability distribution . our proposed system uses probabilistic logic
   programming to generate recommendations that are based on disease specific
   dietary requirements , using a knowledge graph of foods and information
   about the user s condition . in the proposed method , nodes in the knowledge
   graph , such as food functionality or recipes , are characterized by their
   relationships with other surrounding nodes , such as ingredients . we
   conducted an experiment to suggest recipes specifically for patients with
   diabetes and dyslipidemia . at the result , our system enable to recommend
   numerous recipes beneficial for the improvement of lifestyle related
   diseases , especially for users with diabetes , with a precision of over
   0.99
DE health care; knowledge graph; probabilistic logic programming
ID computer circuits; functional programming; graphic methods; logic
   programming; nutrition; probabilistic logics; condition; dyslipidemias;
   functional components; graph-based; knowledge graphs; lifestyle-related
   disease; probabilistic logic programming; probability distributions; system
   use; probability distributions

---

UT 694
AR Parra-López C, 2025, SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER, VPart F1068, P177, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-06527-8_9
TI Exploring the Role of Agriculture and Food Industry 4.0 in Climate Change
   Action (SDG 13)
AU Parra-López C; Hassoun A; Ben Abdallah S; Carmona-Torres C
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER
PY 2025
AB the global food system faces the dual challenge of being a significant
   contributor to climate change , while at the same time being highly
   vulnerable to its impacts . this chapter explores the transformative
   potential of agri food 4.0 technologies in addressing this critical juncture
   , focusing on their role in advancing climate action as outlined in
   sustainable development goal 13 ( sdg 13 ) . it examines how innovative
   applications of technologies such as remote sensing , artificial
   intelligence , the internet of things , and nanotechnology can revolutionize
   agricultural practices and food industry operations to build more resilient
   , efficient , and sustainable food systems . the chapter systematically
   analyzes the contribution of agri food 4.0 to each target of sdg 13 ,
   showing how these technologies can strengthen adaptive capacity , integrate
   climate action into policy , enhance education and awareness , mobilize
   climate finance , and facilitate capacity building in vulnerable countries .
   while recognizing the transformative potential , the chapter also addresses
   key challenges such as the digital divide , affordability , and the need for
   interdisciplinary collaboration and knowledge sharing . ultimately , it
   argues that a holistic and collaborative approach to harnessing agri food
   4.0 is essential to achieving a climate resilient , low emissions food
   system , and securing a sustainable food future for all
DE climate change; climate-smart agriculture; digital agriculture; fourth
   industrial revolution; ghg emissions; precision agriculture; resilience; sdg
   13

---

UT 695
AR Nohria V, 2023, INT CONF COMPUT INTELL COMMUN TECHNOL NETW CICTN, P246, DOI
   10.1109/CICTN57981.2023.10141300
TI Intelligent Food Recommendation System Based on Nutritional Information and
   Preferences of Customers
AU Nohria V; Soni V; Mishra M; Kumar V/1; Lamba S
TC 13
SO INT CONF COMPUT INTELL COMMUN TECHNOL NETW CICTN
PY 2023
AB the growing concern for human being is about their health and resilience .
   people are unaware about their health conditions and what type of food they
   should eat in that health condition . people tend to overlook the internal
   structure of the food they eat and do not pay attention to how many calories
   they should take in a day . this project motivates us to find out what food
   items and number of calories we should eat in various health conditions .
   this paper introduces a study of the food recommendation system . foods can
   be grouped into categories based on calories , nutrients , price , vitamins
   , diseases , and other factors . alternatively , restaurants can be
   identified based on distance from the user , price range , food offered ,
   ratings and reviews . this paper highlights several parameters for food
   process making which is a very time consuming process . a digital menu
   containing comprehensive information about food items . the digital menu
   will help customers to make decision on food very easily . this project
   includes a table booking service , recipes of food items , and food ordering
   service for the customers
DE food calories; price; rating; recommendation; visualization
ID sales; comprehensive information; food calory; food cans; health condition;
   human being; internal structure; nutritional information; price;
   recommendation; recommender systems

---

UT 696
AR Tran Q-L, 2021, IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL COMNETSAT - PROC, P284,
   DOI 10.1109/COMNETSAT53002.2021.9530793
TI A Comparison of Several Approaches for Image Recognition used in Food
   Recommendation System
AU Tran Q-L; Lam G-H; Le Q-N; Tran T-H; Do T-H
TC 8
SO IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL COMNETSAT - PROC
PY 2021
AB in food recommendation systems , users can use mobile devices to capture
   images of the dishes they eat . the types of dishes in images will be
   automatically recognized and input to the recommendation system to suggest
   other dishes which the users likely to enjoy . food image recognition is
   therefore an essential part of the food recommendation system . this used to
   be a hard problem in computer vision as many foods are very similar in color
   and texture . thanks to the development of artificial intelligent and
   especially deep learning techniques , it is much easier to build a program
   to recognize the type of foods in the image . this paper examines several
   approaches , from traditional machine learning to state of the art deep
   learning techniques for food image recognition to provide a comparison of
   the performance of these techniques . to this end , a new dataset of
   vietnamese cuisine including 12,017 photos of 15 dishes has been built to
   test algorithms . traditional machine learning techniques including
   histogram of gradient ( hog ) and scale invariant feature transform ( sift )
   and state of the art deep learning models including vgg16 , mobilenet , ann
   , resnet18 , resnet50 , densenet121 have been used for extracting features
   in the food images . logistic regression ( sf ) and softmax ( sm )
   classification have been used for classification using the extracted
   features . based on the comparison results provided in this paper , one can
   choose appropriate techniques for image recognition to build a good food
   recommendation system
DE classification; deep learning; food dataset; food recognition; food
   recommendation system; machine learning
ID deep learning; image recognition; learning systems; logistic regression;
   statistical tests; textures; appropriate techniques; artificial intelligent;
   color and textures; extracting features; histogram of gradients ( hog );
   learning techniques; machine learning techniques; scale invariant feature
   transforms; recommender systems

---

UT 697
AR Zhang Q/6, 2023, PROCESS MANAG, V60, DOI 10.1016/j.ipm.2023.103443
TI Understanding and predicting cross-cultural food preferences with online
   recipe images
AU Zhang Q/6; Elsweiler D; Trattner C
TC 13
SO PROCESS MANAG
PY 2023
AB predicting food preferences is challenging due to the numerous factors that
   can influence individual taste . cultural influences are one such factor
   that can significantly impact food preferences . irrespective of culture ,
   however , food visual esthetics drive food choice . with this in mind , we
   study 15,000 images of food from prominent recipe portals in china , the us
   and germany with the aim of identifying common visual trends related to food
   choice . we report that distinguishing between appreciated and less
   appreciated recipes based on visual features through multiple machine
   learning experiments is possible , with a maximum accuracy of 67 % . the
   classifiers trained on one culture , when applied to other cultures , reveal
   that appreciated recipes from us and german portals share visual
   similarities , while the visual aspects making recipes attractive for
   chinese users differ . complementing our machine learning experiments , we
   conducted a user study with 450 participants from the three cultures .
   participants are asked to rank recipes based on their appeal and provide
   justification through answering 19 questions . the results reveal
   significant predictors of preference , including perceived appearance and
   taste across all countries , and negative perception of perceived
   healthiness for us and german participants . analysis of 77 consistently
   labeled appealing / non appealing images reveal significant variations in
   low level visual features such as colourfulness , sharpness , and contrast .
   these findings suggest that these low level visual features may play a
   critical role in determining whether an image is perceived as appealing or
   not across different cultures . our results offer promising insights into
   the development of cross culture food recommender systems . by demonstrating
   common ground across food cultures , we believe that these systems can
   provide personalized meal suggestions that reflect user s preferences while
   incorporating ideals such as healthfulness and sustainability
DE food preferences; food recommender system; stable patterns; visual features
ID food supply; machine learning; cultural influences; food preference; food
   recommende system; machine learning; maximum accuracies; multiple machine;
   stable patterns; visual esthetics; visual feature; visual similarity;
   recommender systems

---

UT 698
AR El Majjodi A, 2023, CEUR WORK PROC, V3534, P1
TI The Interplay between Food Knowledge, Nudges, and Preference Elicitation
   Methods Determines the Evaluation of a Recipe Recommender System
AU El Majjodi A; Starke AD; Elahi M; Trattner C
TC 5
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2023
AB domain knowledge can affect how a user evaluates different aspects of a
   recommender system . recipe recommendations might be difficult to understand
   , as some health aspects are implicit . the appropriateness of a recommender
   s preference elicitation ( pe ) method , whether users rate individual items
   or item attributes , may depend on the user s knowledge level . we present
   an online recipe recommender experiment . users ( = 360 ) with varying
   levels of subjective food knowledge faced different cognitive digital nudges
   ( i . e . , food labels ) and pe methods . in a 3 ( recipes annotated with
   no labels , multiple traffic light ( mtl ) labels , or full nutrition labels
   ) x 2 ( pe method : content based pe or knowledge based ) between subjects
   design . we observed a main effect of knowledge based pe on the healthiness
   of chosen recipes , while mtl label only helped marginally . a structural
   equation model analysis revealed that the interplay between user knowledge
   and the pe method reduced the perceived effort of using the system and in
   turn , affected choice difficulty and satisfaction . moreover , the
   evaluation of health labels depends on a user s level of food knowledge .
   our findings emphasize the importance of user characteristics in the
   evaluation of food recommenders and the merit of interface and interaction
   aspects
DE digital nudges; food; nutrition labels; preference elicitation; recommender
   systems
ID domain knowledge; nutrition; content-based; digital nudge; domain knowledge;
   elicitation methods; knowledge based; knowledge level; multiple traffics;
   nutrition label; preference elicitation; traffic light; recommender systems

---

UT 699
AR Lin H-Y, 2024, PROC - IIAI INT CONGR ADV APPL INFORMATICS IIAI-AAI, P679,
   DOI 10.1109/IIAI-AAI63651.2024.00134
TI Automated School Lunch Menu Planning with Machine Learning Algorithms
AU Lin H-Y; Wang J-S; Yang Y-TC
TC 1
SO PROC - IIAI INT CONGR ADV APPL INFORMATICS IIAI-AAI
PY 2024
AB this study introduces an automated menu planning system for schools that
   leverages machine learning to optimize and streamline menu creation ,
   focusing on nutritional guidelines , cost effectiveness , and variety . the
   system comprises two main algorithms : the menu combination algorithm ,
   which employs content based filtering to select diverse recipes by analyzing
   and quantifying recipe features like color , flavor , and ingredients . and
   the menu optimization algorithm , which adjusts ingredient quantities to
   adhere to budget and nutritional standards . to evaluate the system s
   effectiveness , satisfaction surveys were conducted among school lunch menu
   planners , using a seven point likert scale to measure feedback on menu
   variety and cost effectiveness . results showed that the system aligns well
   with nutritional and budgetary requirements , with minimal errors in
   nutritional content and ingredient costs , and substantially reduces menu
   planning time
DE food recommender system; machine learning; multi-objective optimization;
   nutrition balance
ID adversarial machine learning; budget control; content-based filtering; food
   recommender system; likert scale; machine learning algorithms; machine
   learning; multi-objectives optimization; nutrition balance; optimization
   algorithms; planning systems; system effectiveness; food ingredients

---

UT 700
AR Huang B/1, 2022, INT CONF INTELL COMPUT SIGNAL PROCESS ICSP, P1408, DOI
   10.1109/ICSP54964.2022.9778762
TI A Novel recipes recommendation system Based on Knowledge-Graph
AU Huang B/1; Shi X/1; Wang R/2; Wang C/2; Han Y/2
TC 6
SO INT CONF INTELL COMPUT SIGNAL PROCESS ICSP
PY 2022
AB with the improvement of living standards , the demand for personalized
   recipes is getting more and more attention . therefore , this paper designs
   and implements a beneficial recipe recommendation system based on dietary
   knowledge mapping . the front end of the system uses vue . js to build the
   user interface , and the back end uses spring mvc framework to implement .
   and the recommendation technology based on the knowledge graph is studied ,
   and the recipe recommendation method is improved by using knowledge graph .
   firstly , we crawled recipe knowledge through crawlers and built a dietary
   knowledge graph integrating multi domain information by using the rich
   semantics of knowledge graph . secondly , the knowledge graph is combined
   with the collaborative filtering algorithm implemented by mahout to improve
   the effectiveness of recommendations . finally , an intelligent q and a
   module is developed for the system based on the knowledge graph to provide
   accurate and effective recipes for people and patients with dietary choice
   difficulties
DE beneficial recipe recommendation; knowledge graph; recommendation system;
   system design
ID collaborative filtering; knowledge graph; semantics; user interfaces;
   beneficial recipe recommendation; design and implements; end-uses; front
   end; knowledge graphs; knowledge mapping; living standards; recommendation
   technologies; system use; technology-based; recommender systems

---

UT 701
AR Chow Y-Y, 2023, J SYST MANAG SCI, V13, P153, DOI 10.33168/JSMS.2023.0510
TI Food Recommender System: A Review on Techniques, Datasets and Evaluation
   Metrics
AU Chow Y-Y; Haw S-C; Naveen P; Anaam EA; Mahdin HB
TC 10
SO J SYST MANAG SCI
PY 2023
AB with the rise of digital platforms and the availability of large amounts of
   data , food recommender systems have become a powerful tool for helping
   people discover new and delicious meals . today , these systems use
   algorithms and machine learning models to analyze ingredients and recommend
   meals based on factors such as cuisine , dietary restrictions , and
   ingredient compatibility . hence , this paper aims to review the various
   recommendation techniques employed in the food recommender system . we also
   discuss the various algorithms that are used in meal recommender systems ,
   including collaborative filtering , content based filtering , and hybrid
   approaches . overall , this paper provides a comprehensive overview of the
   current state of the art meal recommender systems and to identify the
   opportunities for future enhancement and development in this field . 2023 ,
   success culture press
DE collaborative filtering; content-based; food recommender; hybrid approaches;
   meal recommender; recommender system

---

UT 702
AR El Majjodi A, 2025, CEUR WORK PROC, V4027
TI Nudging Healthy Choices: Leveraging LLM-Generated Hashtags and Explanations
   in Personalized Food Recommendations
AU El Majjodi A; Starke A; Trattner C; Petruzzelli A; Musto C
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2025
AB making healthy recipe choices can be challenging for users , requiring time
   and knowledge to differentiate among various options . these choices are
   often generated by personalized recommender systems that account for
   individual preferences . one effective approach to encouraging healthier
   food choices is to intervene in how these choices are presented to users .
   in this paper , we explore the impact of nutritional food labels and
   evaluate the effectiveness of a large language model ( llm ) in generating
   high quality explanations and hashtags to support users in making healthier
   food decisions . in an online experiment ( n = 240 ) , we designed a
   knowledge based recommender system to generate personalized recipes for each
   user . recipes were annotated with one of four intervention , a multiple
   traffic light ( mtl ) nutrition label , llm generated explanations , llm
   generated hashtags , or no label ( baseline ) . our findings indicate that
   the interventions significantly enhanced users ability to select healthier
   recipes . additionally , we examined how different system components
   affected the overall user experience and how these components interacted
   with one another
DE decision making; digital food nudges; explainability; food recommender
   system; large language models; user-centric evaluation
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; knowledge based systems; nutrition;
   recommender systems; decisions makings; digital food nudge; explainability;
   food recommender system; hashtags; healthy foods; language model; large
   language model; personalized recommender systems; user-centric evaluations;
   decision making

---

UT 703
AR Harini Sri S, 2025, INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT, DOI
   10.1109/CONIT65521.2025.11167050
TI FoodMuse: Health-Aware Food Recommendation System Using Machine Learning and
   API-Based Food Data
AU Harini Sri S; Saishree B; Deepthi SV; Deethiksha R; Damodharan D
TC 0
SO INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT
PY 2025
AB foodmuse is a meal recommendation system created to assist users in eating
   healthier and in turn , reducing food waste . the system will provide
   recommended meals based on the user s health condition and sustainability
   goals by taking into consideration the appropriate health restrictions ( e .
   g . , diabetes ) and ingredients that are available to the user . built with
   a react . js for front end and a flask for back end , foodmuse make use of
   the spoonacular api for recipe retrieval and uses random forest ( rf ) to
   evaluate nutritional suitability , achieving f1-score of 0.8292 and accuracy
   of 0.881 -outperforming decision tree ( dt ) and logistic regression ( lr )
   models . in order to further improve functionality , indexeddb provides
   offline access to saved meals , while gemini ai creates new recipes from
   leftover dishes . foodmuse makes meal planning simpler , healthier , and
   more sustainable by combining food data , machine learning , and a user
   friendly interface
DE api; dish recommendation; flask; food waste reduction; health-based
   filtering; indexeddb; machine learning; random forest; reactjs
ID application programming interfaces ( api ); engineering research;
   filtration; food ingredients; food waste; learning systems; logistic
   regression; machine learning; random forests; recommender systems;
   sustainable development; api; dish recommendation; flask; food waste; food
   waste reduction; health-based filtering; indexeddb; js; machine learning;
   random forests; react; waste reduction; decision trees

---

UT 704
AR Annane B, 2024, IEEE INT CONF AFR FED OPER RES SOC AFROS - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/AFROS62115.2024.11037150
TI Enhancing Security and Traceability of Agricultural Products Supply Chain
   Using Blockchain and Fraud Food Ontology
AU Annane B; Alti A; Lakehal A
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF AFR FED OPER RES SOC AFROS - PROC
PY 2024
AB with the rapid growth of the algerian economy , the citizens standard of
   living has consistently improved , leading to changes in their consumption
   habits . consequently , consumers are paying increasing attention to food
   safety and quality . however , in recent years , several serious food safety
   incidents have occurred , including scandals involving the sale of expired
   food , price , and ingredient manipulation , and the monopolization of key
   food products like vegetable oils and flour . this paper presents a secure
   approach based on the integration of blockchain and ontology to ensure food
   quality , traceability , and confidence among supply chain stakeholders .
   moreover , it permits the integration of risk management techniques into the
   food supply chain and control system , as well as real time food
   traceability . the proposed approach serves as a supply chain framework
   committed to reducing fraud in the food sector . by leveraging blockchain
   and ontology , the solution ensures transparency , reliability , and
   security for all actors in the food supply chain . as a result , the
   proposed approach improves fraud detection accuracy and reduces the time
   required to retrieve and extract fraud information
DE agricultural traceability and visibility; blockchain; food safety; fraud
   detection; ontology; supply chain
ID agriculture; crime; food safety; food security; food supply; risk
   management; safety engineering; vegetable oils; agricultural traceability
   and visibility; blockchain; food ontology; food quality; food supply chain;
   food safety; fraud detection; ontologys; product supply chains; rapid
   growth; supply chains

---

UT 705
AR Lee H, 2025, IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW, P657, DOI
   10.1109/ICDMW69685.2025.00080
TI Culinary Class Wars: Evaluating LLMs Using ASH in Cuisine Transfer Task
AU Lee H; Gim M; Choi D; Kang J
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW
PY 2025
AB computational gastronomy increasingly leverages data mining and ai to reason
   about recipes , cuisines , and culture . recent advances in large language
   models ( llms ) such as gpt 4 , llama , mistral , and gemma have
   demonstrated strong instruction following and generative abilities , making
   them promising tools for creative tasks . yet , despite these advances ,
   llms often fall short when required to generate culturally faithful and
   contextually coherent recipes . we study llms in cuisine transfer adapting a
   base dish to a target cuisine as a structured setting for creativity under
   cultural constraints . we introduce the as h ( authenticity , sensitivity ,
   harmony ) benchmark and a generator evaluator pipeline : six open source
   llms generate 4,800 recipes from 800 standardized prompts spanning 20 base
   dishes and 40 cuisines , and nine llm evaluators , together with a
   stratified subset of 1,000 human ratings , assess cultural fidelity and
   overall quality . across models and cuisines , sensitivity scores are
   consistently higher than authenticity and harmony , revealing a tendency to
   overvalue surface level cultural cues . agreement patterns cluster by model
   family , and some evaluators ( e . g . , 11ama2:13b ) align more closely
   with human ratings . we discuss implications for 'llm as a judge in creative
   domains within computational gastronomy
DE ash benchmark; computational gastronomy; creativity evaluation; cuisine
   transfer; cultural ai; large language models; llm-as-a-judge; recipe
   generation
ID artificial intelligence; benchmarking; ash benchmark; computational
   gastronomy; creativity evaluations; cuisine transfer; cultural ai; language
   model; large language model; large language model-as-a-judge; recipe
   generation; data mining

---

UT 706
AR Chatterjee U, 2023, J SCI, V49, P831, DOI 10.1177/01655515211022163
TI Context-based understanding of food-related queries using a culinary
   knowledge model
AU Chatterjee U
TC 1
SO J SCI
PY 2023
AB dietary practices are governed by a mix of ethnographic aspects , such as
   social , cultural and environmental factors . these aspects need to be taken
   into consideration during an analysis of food related queries . queries are
   usually ambiguous . it is essential to understand , analyze and refine the
   queries for better search and retrieval . the work is focused on identifying
   the explicit , implicit and hidden facets of a query , taking into
   consideration the context culinary domain . this article proposes a
   technique for query understanding , analysis and refinement based on a
   domain specific knowledge model . queries are conceptualized by mapping the
   query term to concepts defined in the model . this allows an understanding
   of the semantic point of view of a query and an ability to determine the
   meaning of its terms and their interrelatedness . the knowledge model acts
   as a backbone providing the context for query understanding , analysis and
   refinement and outperforms other models , such as schema . org , bbc food
   ontology and recipe ontology
DE contextualisation; information retrieval; knowledge model; query
   understanding
ID domain knowledge; semantics; context-based; contextualization; cultural
   factors; domain-specific knowledge; environmental factors; knowledge model;
   query terms; query understanding; search and retrieval; social factor;
   ontology

---

UT 707
AR Spoladore D, 2020, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V598, P634, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-62412-5_52
TI Towards a Collaborative Ontology-Based Decision Support System to Foster
   Healthy and Tailored Diets
AU Spoladore D; Sacco M
TC 7
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB nutrition related diseases can considerably contribute to many different
   health related problems and can impact on several segments of the population
   . promoting balanced diet plans is therefore pivotal . however , this is not
   a trivial task as it requires different stakeholders ( nutrition experts ,
   agro industrial businesses and consumers ) to cooperate . this work
   introduces a prototypical ontology based decision support system to enable
   such a cooperation , allowing nutrition experts to rely on a support tool
   when developing diet plans , consumers to received tailored suggestions and
   to be informed regarding new food products that could have an effect on
   specific their health condition , and agro industrial companies to divulge
   characteristics of novel food products and their expected effects . these
   stakeholders can also exchange comments , suggestions and observations . the
   decision support system relies on widely adopted ontologies and its use is
   introduced by two scenarios
DE decision support system; food ontology; nutrition ontology; ontology
   engineering
ID food products; nutrition; ontology; virtual corporation; balanced diet;
   collaborative ontology; expected effects; health condition; health related
   problems; industrial companies; ontology-based; support tool; decision
   support systems

---

UT 708
AR Doğan M, 2023, INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI, V33, DOI 10.1016/j.ijgfs.2023.100795
TI Computational gastronomy: A study to test the food pairing hypothesis in
   Turkish cuisine
AU Doğan M; Değerli AH
TC 8
SO INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI
PY 2023
AB this study adopts computational gastronomy methods to test the food pairing
   hypothesis . for this purpose , food pairing index values ( the average
   number of shared flavor molecules between ingredient pairs ) were calculated
   for recipes from seven local cuisines in turkey . these values were examined
   for correlation with user ratings of recipes , and compared with the fpi
   values of randomly generated recipes . additionally , the contribution of
   individual ingredients to the fpi values and the frequently used ingredients
   in the cuisines were analyzed . the results revealed that fpi values were
   not significantly positively correlated with user ratings , suggesting that
   the food pairing hypothesis can not be fully supported . also , comparisons
   with randomly generated recipes show that fpi values are heavily influenced
   by the frequency of ingredient usage in kitchens . in particular , positive
   food pairing behavior was observed in some regional cuisines , while
   negative food pairing behavior was found in others . however , these
   patterns were consistent with the similarities observed in other kitchens .
   overall , the findings , when evaluated together with previous findings and
   criticisms , show that the food pairing hypothesis and the current
   computational gastronomy approach to it are partially successful in food
   pairing
DE computational gastronomy; food pairing; gastronomy; turkish cuisine; turkish
   regional cuisines

---

UT 709
AR Do TC, 2025, ENG TECHNOL APPL SCI RES, V15, P28843, DOI 10.48084/etasr.12880
TI A Smart Self-Feeding System for Frail Elderly and Parkinsonian Patients
AU Do TC; Nguyen MT; Dang TD; Thinh NT
TC 0
SO ENG TECHNOL APPL SCI RES
PY 2025
AB this paper introduces a self feeding machine that can help older people and
   people with parkinson s disease eat independently , without having to rely
   on others for assistance . it consists of an index tray , a two degree of
   freedom grip arm equipped with a spoon , and a mobile application for
   control , offering a cost effective and accessible solution . the device
   uses machine learning to analyze nutritional intake , detect user mouth
   movements , and estimate calorie consumption . these capabilities enable
   personalized diet recommendations and real time adjustments to tray
   positioning and feeding motions , thereby enhancing patient autonomy . by
   integrating efficient hardware design and nutritional analytics , carefeeder
   represents a promising approach to improving both the independence and
   overall well being of individuals with limited mobility . ( 2025 ) , (
   engineering )
DE carefeeder; degrees of freedom; index tray; self-feeding machine; vietnamese
   elders; web server

---

UT 710
AR Waqar M, 2026, EFOOD, V7, DOI 10.1002/efd2.70161
TI Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry: Transforming Safety,
   Efficiency, and Sustainability From Farm to Fork
AU Waqar M; Shahid M; Chaijan M; Panpipat W; Benabdelmoumene D; Mediani A; Omar
   AI; Ibrahim SRM; Ullah Q; Ageru TA
TC 0
SO EFOOD
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is promptly changing the nature of food
   production and processing to increase safety , efficiency , quality
   assurance , and sustainability throughout the farm to fork chain . this
   review discusses the recent developments in ai in the food manufacturing
   industry , such as machine learning ( ml ) , deep learning ( dl ) , computer
   vision ( cv ) , hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) , robotics , internet of
   things ( iot ) integration , and natural language processing . these
   technologies allow detecting contamination and fraud in real time , near
   perfect predictive maintenance less 30 % unplanned downtime , automated
   quality checks with up to 96 % 100 % accuracy , ai enabled predictive
   maintenance ( pdm ) has demonstrated its effectiveness by decreasing
   unplanned downtime in industrial case studies through a reduction rate that
   reaches 30 % of total downtime , resource efficient smart factories , and
   creative ai driven formulation of products . new paradigms include digital
   twins , explainable ai , computational gastronomy , and cultured meat
   production , highlighting the transformative power of ai . some of the
   solutions include standardized datasets , lightweight architectures ,
   federated learning , and scalable deployment training programs . when used
   responsibly , ai can help create food systems that meet regulatory
   requirements while achieving sustainable development goals and circular
   economy standards , and all three sustainable development goals , like zero
   hunger ( sdg 2 ) , responsible consumption and production ( sdg 12 ) , and
   climate action ( sdg 13 ) . 2026 the author ( s ) . efood published by john
   wiley and sons australia , ltd on behalf of international association of
   dietetic nutrition and safety .
DE artificial intelligence; circular economy; digital twins; food processing;
   food safety; machine learning; predictive maintenance; quality control;
   smart manufacturing; sustainability
ID accident prevention; circular economy; deep learning; food processing; food
   safety; industrial economics; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   nutrition; predictive maintenance; processed foods; quality assurance; smart
   manufacturing; sustainable development goals; circular economy; food
   industries; food manufacturing industries; food production; food safety;
   hyperspectral; machine learning; natural languages; predictive maintenance;
   smart manufacturing; quality control; sustainable development

---

UT 711
AR Zhang J/6, 2023, INTL J MACH LEARN CYBERN, V14, P2903, DOI
   10.1007/s13042-023-01808-7
TI A unified approach to designing sequence-based personalized food
   recommendation systems: tackling dynamic user behaviors
AU Zhang J/6; Wang Z/11; Liu W/1; Liu X/1; Zheng Q
TC 17
SO INTL J MACH LEARN CYBERN
PY 2023
AB the recommender system ( rs ) is a well known practical application of the
   state of the art information filtering and machine learning technologies .
   traditional recommendation approaches , including collaborative and content
   based filtering techniques , have been widely employed to provide
   suggestions in rss , where the user item interaction matrix is the primary
   data source . in many application domains , interactions between users and
   items are more likely to be dynamic rather than static , and thus dynamic
   user behaviors should be taken into account when solving recommendation
   tasks in order to provide more accurate suggestions . in this work , we
   consider the sequentially ordered information from user item interactions in
   the rss where a sequence based recommendation model is put forward with
   applications to the food recommendation scenario . furthermore , the long
   short term memory ( lstm ) network is employed as the building block to
   establish such a recommendation model , and a collaborative filtering unit
   is adopted to make personalized food recommendation . the proposed lstm
   based rs is successfully applied to a real world food recommendation data
   set . experimental results demonstrate that the developed method outperforms
   some currently popular rss in terms of precision , recall , mean average
   precision and mean reciprocal rank in food recommendation
DE collaborative filtering; food recommendation; long short-term memory
   network; sequential prediction
ID behavioral research; brain; long short-term memory; recommender systems;
   collaborative based filtering; content-based filtering; food recommendation;
   long short-term memory network; machine learning technology; memory network;
   sequential prediction; state of the art; unified approach; user behaviors;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 712
AR Ribeiro D, 2022, APPL SCI, V12, DOI 10.3390/app12020702
TI SousChef System for Personalized Meal Recommendations: A Validation Study
AU Ribeiro D; Barbosa T; Ribeiro J; Sousa F; Vieira EF; Silva M; Silva A
TC 9
SO APPL SCI
PY 2022
AB nutrition is an essential part of our life . a healthy diet can help to
   prevent several chronic diseases like diabetes , obesity , cancer , and
   cardiovascular diseases , being influenced by social , cultural , and
   economic factors . meal recommender systems are a trend to assist people in
   finding new recipes to cook and adopt healthier eating habits . however ,
   food choice is complex and driven by multiple factors which need to be
   reflected in the personalization process of these systems to ensure their
   adoption . we present souschef , a meal recommender system that can help to
   plan multiple meals considering an individual s food preferences ,
   restrictions , and nutritional needs . our approach uses recipes rather than
   individual food items , limiting recommendations to tasteful and culturally
   acceptable food combinations . several experiments were performed to
   evaluate the system from different perspectives : nutritional , food
   preferences , and restrictions , and the recommendations variability . our
   results highlight the importance of using extensive and diverse content in
   recommendations to meet food preferences , restrictions , and nutritional
   needs of people with different characteristics
DE food recommender systems; health and safety; meal recommender systems;
   nutrition; optimization; recommender systems

---

UT 713
AR Jiang H/1, 2019, MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED, P2188, DOI
   10.1145/3343031.3350594
TI Market2Dish: A health-aware food recommendation system
AU Jiang H/1; Nie L; Wang W/5; Duan L-Y; Liu M/2; Xu C/1
TC 17
SO MM - PROC ACM INT CONF MULTIMED
PY 2019
AB in order to help people develop healthy eating habits , we present a
   personalized health aware food recommendation system , called market2dish .
   market2dish could recognize the ingredients in the micro videos taken from
   the market , characterize the health conditions of users from their social
   media accounts , and ultimately recommend users with the personalized
   healthy foods . specifically , we employ a word class interaction based text
   classification model to learn the fine grained similarity between sparse
   health features on the social media platforms and pre defined health
   concepts , and then a category aware hierarchical memory network based
   recommender is introduced to learn the user recipe interactions for better
   food recommendations . moreover , we demonstrate this system as an online
   app for real time interactions with users
DE health-aware food recommendation; recipe retrieval; user health profiling
ID classification ( of information ); commerce; health; social networking (
   online ); text processing; class interaction; hierarchical memory;
   personalized healths; real time interactions; recipe retrieval; social media
   platforms; text classification models; user health profiling; recommender
   systems

---

UT 714
AR Tinoco-Lara M, 2024, COMPUT SIST, V28, P1833, DOI 10.13053/CyS-28-4-4969
TI KraKen: Dietary Behavior and Preferences-based Food Recommender System
AU Tinoco-Lara M; Vilchis García JI; Villuendas-Rey Y; Arguelles A
TC 2
SO COMPUT SIST
PY 2024
AB this study addresses a key objective of the sustainable development goals of
   the united nations : improving life expectancy and reducing the principal
   causes of mortality . in mexico , the increasing prevalence of chronic
   diseases such as diabetes , obesity , and hypertension has significantly
   compromised quality of life . given these challenges , there is a critical
   need for innovative technology based solutions that promote healthier
   lifestyles . our research aims to implement a novel recommendation algorithm
   to identify group users with similar behavioral patterns . using these
   patterns , the algorithm generates tailored recommendations designed to
   consistently improve dietary habits , taking into account both individual
   and collective preferences . data for this study were collected through an
   online survey targeting the mexican population . the findings indicate a
   significant shift toward healthier eating behaviors and a greater
   willingness to embrace emerging technologies . these trends herald a
   promising future in which technological integration in health and wellness
   could substantially improve community health and nutrition . 2024 instituto
   politecnico nacional
DE artificial intelligence; food recommendation; food recommender system;
   healthy eating; intelligent computing; recommender algorithm

---

UT 715
AR Aubin S, 2019, JOURN FRANCOPH ING CONNAISSANCES IC, P43
TI Recent progresses in data and knowledge integration for decision support in
   agri-food chains
AU Aubin S; Bisquert P; Buche P; Dibie J; Ibanescu L; Jonquet C; Roussey C
TC 4
SO JOURN FRANCOPH ING CONNAISSANCES IC
PY 2019
AB research in agri food and related fields dealing with sustainability has
   undergone important changes in the past years and tends to be more
   integrative , collaborative , and interdisciplinary . in this article , we
   present an excerpt of recent and ongoing projects in the french community
   proposing data integration guided by an ontology for collective decision
   support in the agri food domain . the use of ontologies for primary
   production and secondary production , i . e . transformation of primary
   production into food products , are addressed . an example of collective
   decision support system for food packaging selection which relies on
   scientific data annotated thanks to ontologies and food chain stakeholders
   preferences is described . french initiatives at the international level to
   share agri food ontologies are presented . 2019 journees francophones
   d'ingenierie des connaissances , ic 2019
DE argumentation; computational social choice; data integration; flexible
   querying; ontology
ID artificial intelligence; decision support systems; food products; ontology;
   argumentation; collective decision; computational social choices; data and
   knowledge integrations; decision supports; flexible querying; food chain;
   ontologys; primary production; recent progress; data integration

---

UT 716
AR Wu S-H, 2022, PROC - IET INT CONF ENG TECHNOL APPL IET-ICETA, DOI
   10.1109/IET-ICETA56553.2022.9971598
TI AI Food Recommendation Systems
AU Wu S-H; Hsiao J; Wu Y-S; Jeng J-T
TC 5
SO PROC - IET INT CONF ENG TECHNOL APPL IET-ICETA
PY 2022
AB in an information rich generation , recommendation systems is very important
   . hence , in this paper we use the google map api and the feedback record of
   user to build data set on database for the ai ( artificial intelligence )
   food recommendation systems . in order to make a recommendation system that
   knows more than the user , we combine the indispensable food and drink
   according to the preferences of users to recommend the favorite of users .
   that is , the ai food recommendation system uses gae ( graph autoencoder )
   and regional filtering to predict the favorite of users . besides , the ai
   food recommendation system is proposed to use gae and regional filtering to
   predict the user s favorite degree by means of deep learning , and then push
   it to the user through the line bot that can recommend the store to the
   favorite food of users on nearby , and then feedback to our system after the
   user uses it , which makes the proposed system more complete and accurate
DE artificial intelligence; google api; graph autoencoder; line bot;
   recommendation systems
ID deep learning; learning systems; auto encoders; dataset; google api; google
   maps; google+; graph autoencoder; line bot; system use; recommender systems

---

UT 717
AR Ahmed E, 2025, PLOS DIGIT HEAL, V4, DOI 10.1371/journal.pdig.0000530
TI Diabetes-focused food recommender system (DFRS) to enabling digital health
AU Ahmed E; Oumer M; Hassan M
TC 9
SO PLOS DIGIT HEAL
PY 2025
AB the integration of digital health technologies into diabetes management has
   shown the potential to improve patient outcomes by providing personalized
   dietary recommendations . this study aims to develop and evaluate the
   diabetes focused food recommender system ( dfrs ) , a system designed to
   assist individuals with diabetes in making informed food choices . using a
   combination of advanced machine learning algorithms , nutrition science ,
   and digital health technologies , dfrs generates personalized
   recommendations tailored to individual needs . the methodology involves data
   collection from diverse patient profiles and model development using graph
   neural networks ( gnn ) and other machine learning techniques .
   hyperparameter tuning and rigorous performance evaluation were conducted to
   optimize system accuracy . the results demonstrate that after optimization ,
   gnn achieved an accuracy of 94 percent , significantly enhancing the
   precision of dietary recommendations . clinical validation of the system
   showed a reduction in hba1c levels , glycemic variability , and incidents of
   hyper and hypoglycemia . therefore , dfrs has proven to be an effective tool
   for improving dietary management in diabetes care , and its integration into
   clinical workflows offers the potential to enhance health outcomes and
   streamline healthcare delivery . 2025 ahmed et al .

---

UT 718
AR De Croon R, 2025, JMIR MHEALTH UHEALTH, V13, DOI 10.2196/51271
TI An Explanation Interface for Healthy Food Recommendations in a Real-Life
   Workplace Deployment: User-Centered Design Study
AU De Croon R; Segovia-Lizano D; Finglas P; Abeele VV; Verbert K
TC 3
SO JMIR MHEALTH UHEALTH
PY 2025
AB background : despite widespread awareness of healthy eating principles ,
   many individuals struggle to translate this knowledge into consistent ,
   sustainable dietary change . food recommender systems , increasingly used in
   various settings , offer the potential for personalized guidance and
   behavior change support . however , traditional approaches may prioritize
   user preferences or popularity metrics without sufficiently considering long
   term nutritional goals . this can inadvertently reinforce unhealthy eating
   patterns . emerging research suggests that incorporating explanations into
   recommender systems can increase transparency , promote informed decision
   making , and potentially influence food choices . yet , the effectiveness of
   explanations in promoting healthy choices within complex , real world food
   environments remain largely unexplored . objective : this study aims to
   investigate the design , implementation , and preliminary evaluation of a
   food recommender system that integrates explanations in a real world food
   catering application . we seek to understand how such a system can promote
   healthy choices while addressing the inherent tensions between user control
   , meal variety , and the need for nutritionally sound recommendations .
   specifically , our objectives are to ( 1 ) identify and prioritize key
   design considerations for food recommenders that balance personalization ,
   nutritional guidance , and user experience . and ( 2 ) conduct a proof of
   principle study in a real life setting to assess the system s effect on user
   understanding , trust , and potentially on dietary choices . methods : an
   iterative , user centered design process guided the development and
   refinement of the system across 4 phases : ( phase 0 ) an exploratory
   qualitative study ( n=26 ) to understand stakeholder needs and initial
   system impressions , ( phases 1 and 2 ) rapid prototyping in real life
   deployments ( n=45 and n=16 , respectively ) to iteratively improve
   usability and features , and ( phase 3 ) a proof of principle study with
   employees ( n=136 ) to evaluate a set of design goals . we collected a mix
   of data , including usage logs , pre and post study questionnaires , in app
   feedback , and a pre and postfood frequency questionnaire to establish
   nutritional profiles . results : although we experienced a high drop out (
   77 % after 7 weeks ) , motivated and remaining participants valued
   personalization features , particularly the ability to configure allergies
   and lifestyle preferences . explanations increased understanding of
   recommendations and created a sense of control , even when preferences and
   healthy options did not fully align . however , a mismatch persisted between
   individual preferences and nutritionally optimal recommendations . this
   highlights the design challenge of balancing user control , meal variety ,
   and the promotion of healthy eating . conclusions : integrating explanations
   into personalized food recommender systems might be promising for supporting
   healthier food choices and creating a more informed understanding of dietary
   patterns . our findings could highlight the importance of balancing user
   control with both the practical limitations of food service settings and the
   need for nutritionally sound recommendations . while fully resolving the
   tension between immediate preferences and long term health goals is an
   ongoing challenge , explanations can play a crucial role in promoting more
   conscious decision making . robin de croon , daniela segovia lizano , paul
   finglas , vero vanden abeele , katrien verbert .
DE food catering; food recommender systems; healthy eating; human computer
   interaction; meal recommendations; nutritional profile; personalized
   nutrition; real-life deployment; transparency
ID adult; diet healthy; female; humans; male; middle aged; qualitative
   research; surveys and questionnaires; user-centered design; workplace;
   adult; female; healthy diet; human; male; middle aged; procedures;
   psychology; qualitative research; questionnaire; user-centered design;
   workplace

---

UT 719
AR Thongyoo P, 2020, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12341 LNCS, P19, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-60816-3_3
TI A Personalized Food Recommendation Chatbot System for Diabetes Patients
AU Thongyoo P; Anantapanya P; Jamsri P; Chotipant S
TC 9
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB diabetes is a disorder of the body that is unable to produce enough insulin
   . diabetes causes the body to improperly burn sugar , which affects the
   blood sugar level leaving a sugar residue . diabetes is related to genes ,
   body weight , lack of exercise and aging . when patients with diabetes
   neglect good nutrition this can cause many health problems . this research ,
   therefore , develops a chatbot named ' waan noy ' to recommend a diet
   suitable for individuals with diabetes and build a cooperative health
   society . our chatbot recommends personalized eating . it is suitable for
   use by diabetes patients as indicated by their evaluations . through use of
   nutrition therapy controls , waan noy recommends specific foods . the user s
   evaluation is divided into 3 areas : content , design , and implementation
   to determine user degree of satisfaction with waan noy
DE cooperative health society; diabetes; food recommendation; health chatbot;
   nutrition therapy
ID visualization; blood sugar levels; body weight; chatbot; degree of
   satisfaction; diabetes patients; sugar residues; therapy control; nutrition

---

UT 720
AR Suciu G, 2021, IEEE INT SYMP DES TECHNOL ELECTRON PACKAG SIITME - CONF PROC,
   P378, DOI 10.1109/SIITME53254.2021.9663672
TI Digital Solutions for Smart Food Supply Chain
AU Suciu G; Pop I; Pasat A; Calescu S; Vatasoiu R; Suciu I
TC 6
SO IEEE INT SYMP DES TECHNOL ELECTRON PACKAG SIITME - CONF PROC
PY 2021
AB food waste is a major problem in the current economy , equaling 20 % of all
   food produced in the eu . the european commission reported , in 2019 , that
   the eu 27 generated 89 million tons of food waste , while the food service
   and hospitality sector accounts for 12.5 million tons of food waste ( 14 %
   of total food waste ) . catering and food services in healthcare
   institutions face even more significant challenges : plate waste in
   healthcare facilities ranges between 6 % -65 % . hospitalized patients
   continue to suffer from the risk of malnutrition resulting from
   inappropriate food distribution and consumption . in this paper we introduce
   adcater project , which proposes an advanced ict platform based on
   innovative technologies integrated in a smart food catering supply chain
   platform . adcater aims for economic efficiencies to farmers and suppliers .
   personalized nutrition accuracy to diners / kitchens , wholesalers , and
   caterers . also , verification of personal , organizational , and global
   nutritional policies . this will be achieved by harnessing iot , computer
   vision and deep learning technologies to identify and decode images of
   prepared food ' served to plate before a meal ' and ' left in plate after a
   meal ' , applying advanced analytics to derive valuable information such as
   served meal ingredients , the degree of adjustment and dietary gaps to the
   diner profile , batch traceability data , effective and up to date
   nutritional supervision , food waste , and correlation between consumer
   consumption and health
DE ai; blockchain; computer vision; food waste; supply chain
ID blockchain; computer vision; deep learning; food supply; nutrition; current;
   blockchain; digital solutions; european commission; food consumption; food
   supply chain; food waste; foodservices; healthcare facility; healthcare
   institutions; supply chains

---

UT 721
AR Vani KS, 2024, ISML - INTELL SYST MACHLEARN CONF, P338, DOI
   10.1109/ISML60050.2024.11007437
TI Diabetes Prediction and Ayurvedic Food Recommendation System
AU Vani KS; Vallabhaneni P; Yalavarthi H
TC 1
SO ISML - INTELL SYST MACHLEARN CONF
PY 2024
AB madhumeha ( diabetes ) is a deep rooted disease which is being faced by most
   of the people nowadays and affecting the significant growth of the global
   population . modern medical science concentrates on treating the symptoms
   without knowing the origin of diabetes . this may not support the overall
   development of the patient . ayurveda is an ancient system of medicine from
   india , views diabetes as a disorder caused by apathya ahara ( called as
   imbalance diet ) , imbalance of the body doshas and lack of exercises . it
   starts curing diabetes from origin . timely prediction and control of
   diabetes is crucial to prevent its debilitating complications . the existing
   system predicts diabetes and recommends the diet based on modern medical
   strategies . the proposed system predicts diabetes and recommends a diet (
   pathya ahara ) aligned with ayurveda , which has a major impact in treating
   diabetes . this approach aims to restore the balance , improve digestion and
   optimize the overall well being . the system uses machine learning
   techniques to predict whether a person is having madhumeha or not . the
   accuracy attained by the proposed system is 96.74 %
DE ayurveda; diabetes prediction; diet recommendation; machine learning; web
   application
ID forecasting; intelligent systems; learning systems; machine learning;
   medicine; nutrition; ayurveda; diabetes prediction; diet recommendation;
   existing systems; global population; machine learning; medical science;
   prediction and control; web application; web applications; population
   statistics

---

UT 722
AR Yang L/3, 2024, JMIR FORM RES, V8, DOI 10.2196/55088
TI An Online Multimodal Food Data Exploration Platform for Specific Population
   Health: Development Study
AU Yang L/3; Guo Z; Xu X/4; Kang H/1; Lai J; Li J/7
TC 0
SO JMIR FORM RES
PY 2024
AB background : nutrient needs vary over the lifespan . improving knowledge of
   both population groups and care providers can help with healthier food
   choices , thereby promoting population health and preventing diseases .
   providing evidence based food knowledge online is credible , low cost , and
   easily accessible . objective : this study aimed to develop an online
   multimodal food data exploration platform for easy access to evidence based
   diet and nutrition related data . methods : we developed an online platform
   named food atlas in collaboration with a multidisciplinary expert group from
   the national institute for nutrition and health and peking union medical
   college hospital in china . to demonstrate its feasibility for chinese food
   for pregnant women , a user friendly and high quality multimodal food
   knowledge graph was constructed , and various interactions with graph
   structured data were developed for easy access , including graph based
   interactive visualizations , natural language retrieval , and image text
   retrieval . subsequently , we evaluated food atlas from both the system
   perspective and the user perspective . results : the constructed multimodal
   food knowledge graph contained a total of 2011 entities , 10,410 triplets ,
   and 23,497 images . its schema consisted of 11 entity types and 26 types of
   semantic relations . compared with 5 other online dietary platforms (
   foodwake , boohee , xiachufang , allrecipes , and yummly ) , food atlas
   offers a distinct and comprehensive set of data content and system functions
   desired by target populations . meanwhile , a total of 28 participants
   representing 4 different user groups were recruited to evaluate its
   usability : preparing for pregnancy ( n=8 ) , pregnant ( n=12 ) , clinicians
   ( n=5 ) , and dietitians ( n=3 ) . the mean system usability scale index of
   our platform was 82.5 ( sd 9.94. range 40.0-82.5 ) . this above average
   usability score and the use cases indicated that food atlas is tailored to
   the needs of the target users . furthermore , 96 % ( 27/28 ) of the
   participants stated that the platform had high consistency , illustrating
   the necessity and effectiveness of health professionals participating in
   online , evidence based resource development . conclusions : this study
   demonstrates the development of an online multimodal food data exploration
   platform and its ability to meet the rising demand for accessible , credible
   , and appropriate evidence based online dietary resources . further research
   and broader implementation of such platforms have the potential to
   popularize knowledge , thereby helping populations at different life stages
   make healthier food choices . lin yang , zhen guo , xiaowei xu , hongyu kang
   , jianqiang lai , jiao li .
DE chinese food data; diet; health promotion; multi-modal knowledge graph;
   nutrients; online platform; population health promotion; pregnant women

---

UT 723
AR Forouzandeh S, 2024, COMPUT BIOL MED, V169, DOI
   10.1016/j.compbiomed.2023.107882
TI Health-aware food recommendation system with dual attention in heterogeneous
   graphs
AU Forouzandeh S; Rostami M/1; Berahmand K; Sheikhpour R
TC 48
SO COMPUT BIOL MED
PY 2024
AB recommender systems ( rs ) have been increasingly applied to food and health
   . however , challenges still remain , including the effective incorporation
   of heterogeneous information and the discovery of meaningful relationships
   among entities in the context of food and health recommendations . to
   address these challenges , we propose a novel framework , the health aware
   food recommendation system with dual attention in heterogeneous graphs (
   hfrs da ) , for unsupervised representation learning on heterogeneous graph
   structured data . hfrs da utilizes an attention technique to reconstruct
   node features and edges and employs a dual hierarchical attention mechanism
   for enhanced unsupervised learning of attributed graph representations .
   hfrs da addresses the challenge of effectively leveraging the heterogeneous
   information in the graph and discovering meaningful semantic relationships
   between entities . the framework analyzes recipe components and their
   neighbors in the heterogeneous graph and can discover popular and healthy
   recipes , thereby promoting healthy eating habits . we compare hfrs da using
   the allrecipes dataset and find that it outperforms all the related methods
   from the literature . our study demonstrates that hfrs da enhances the
   unsupervised learning of attributed graph representations , which is
   important in scenarios where labeled data is scarce or unavailable . hfrs da
   can generate node embeddings for unused data effectively , enabling both
   inductive and transductive learning
DE attention; health food recommendation system; heterogeneous information
   networks ( hin )
ID food; semantics; graphic methods; information services; semantics;
   unsupervised learning; attention; attributed graphs; graph representation;
   graph structured data; health food recommendation system; health foods;
   heterogeneous graph; heterogeneous information; heterogeneous information
   network; information networks; algorithm; area under the curve; article;
   attention; attention network; deep learning; eating habit; feature learning
   ( machine learning ); health-aware food recommendation system with dual
   attention in heterogeneous graph; healthy diet; human; learning algorithm;
   macronutrient; nutrient profiling; world health organization; food;
   semantics; recommender systems

---

UT 724
AR Dooley DM, 2018, NPJ SCI FOOD, V2, P1, DOI 10.1038/s41538-018-0032-6
TI Food on: A harmonized food ontology to increase global food traceability,
   quality control and data integration
AU Dooley DM; Griffiths EJ; Gosal GS; Buttigieg PL; Hoehndorf R; Lange MC/1;
   Schriml LM; Brinkman FSL; Hsiao WWL
TC 352
SO NPJ SCI FOOD
PY 2018
AB the construction of high capacity data sharing networks to support
   increasing government and commercial data exchange has highlighted a key
   roadblock : the content of existing internet connected information remains
   siloed due to a multiplicity of local languages and data dictionaries . this
   lack of a digital lingua franca is obvious in the domain of human food as
   materials travel from their wild or farm origin , through processing and
   distribution chains , to consumers . well defined , hierarchical vocabulary
   , connected with logical relationships in other words , an ontology is
   urgently needed to help tackle data harmonization problems that span the
   domains of food security , safety , quality , production , distribution ,
   and consumer health and convenience . foodon is a consortium driven project
   to build a comprehensive and easily accessible global farm to fork ontology
   about food , that accurately and consistently describes foods commonly known
   in cultures from around the world . foodon addresses food product
   terminology gaps and supports food traceability . focusing on human and
   domesticated animal food description , foodon contains animal and plant food
   sources , food categories and products , and other facets like preservation
   processes , contact surfaces , and packaging . much of foodon s vocabulary
   comes from transforming langual , a mature and popular food indexing
   thesaurus , into a world wide web consortium ( w3c ) owl web ontology
   language formatted vocabulary that provides system interoperability ,
   quality control , and software driven intelligence . foodon compliments
   other technologies facilitating food traceability , which is becoming
   critical in this age of increasing globalization of food networks

---

UT 725
AR Panwar M, 2023, INT CONF INTEGR INTELL COMMUN SYST ICIICS, DOI
   10.1109/ICIICS59993.2023.10421677
TI K-means Clustering Powered Context Aware Food Recommender System
AU Panwar M; Sharma A/2; Mahela OP; Khan B
TC 2
SO INT CONF INTEGR INTELL COMMUN SYST ICIICS
PY 2023
AB this paper designed a k means clustering powered context aware food
   recommender system ( cafrs ) . the cafrs is based on dividing the food data
   sets into clusters to minimize the error between the user input and
   available data by computing the distance between the cluster centroid and
   available food data in the data set of cafrs . recommended food has the
   minimum distance from the k means clustering ( kmc ) centroid . root mean
   square error ( rmse ) and mean absolute error ( mae ) are computed to
   evaluate requirement of the repeat orders to meet energy demand of the user
   . proposed cafrs is effective to recommend a suitable recipe for the user
   and rmse and mae are effective to estimate the requirement of repeat order .
   performance of the proposed cafrs is superior compared to a rule based food
   recommender system ( rbfrs ) . this study is performed in matlab environment
DE context-aware food recommender system; food preference; k-means clustering;
   mean absolute error; root mean square error
ID cluster computing; errors; k-means clustering; matlab; mean square error;
   cluster centroids; context-aware food recommende system; context-aware;
   dataset; food preference; k-means++ clustering; mean absolute error;
   minimums distance; root mean square errors; user input; recommender systems

---

UT 726
AR Sarkar IN, 2024, AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC, V2024, P1120
TI From Food to Clinic: Mapping FoodOn to the UMLS to Enable Nutritional
   Decision Support
AU Sarkar IN
TC 0
SO AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC
PY 2024
AB food and nutrition knowledge is recognized as a fundamental factor for the
   health and well being of communities . however , its integration into
   biomedical and health knowledge systems is limited by the absence of
   standardized ontologies that encapsulate food related concepts . this study
   mapped foodon , an open source food ontology , to the unified medical
   language system ( umls ) metathesaurus , a compendium of biomedical
   ontologies . as the first systematic mapping of a food ontology to the umls
   , the results of this study provide an ontological foundation for
   incorporating dietary data into clinical and public health workflows . the
   findings suggest that expanding the representation of food concepts in
   biomedical ontologies could enhance the potential to incorporate food and
   nutritional into clinical decision making and research . furthermore , this
   work lays the groundwork for integrating food based therapies from
   traditional medicine systems ( e . g . , ayurveda and traditional chinese
   medicine ) into contemporary clinical knowledge frameworks to support more
   holistic approaches to health care . 2024 amia all rights reserved .
ID biological ontologies; decision support systems clinical; food; humans;
   unified medical language system; biological ontology; classification;
   clinical decision support system; food; human; unified medical language
   system

---

UT 727
AR Abideen AZ, 2021, LOGIST, V5, DOI 10.3390/logistics5040083
TI Food Supply Chain Transformation through Technology and Future Research
   Directions—A Systematic Review
AU Abideen AZ; Sundram VPK; Pyeman J; Othman AK; Sorooshian S
TC 106
SO LOGIST
PY 2021
AB background : digital and smart supply chains are reforming the food chain to
   help eliminate waste , improve food safety , and reduce the possibility of a
   global food catastrophe . the globe currently faces numerous food related
   issues , ranging from a lack of biodiversity to excessive waste , and from
   ill health caused by excessive consumption to widespread food insecurity .
   it is time to look back at how technology has tackled food supply chain
   challenges related to quality , safety , and sustainability over the last
   decade . moreover , continuous transformations of the food supply chain into
   a more sustainable business model with utmost resilience is the need of the
   hour due to covid 19 disruptions . method : this study aimed to systematize
   literature ( 20102021 ) in the described context and propose a future
   research direction , with the assistance of a systematic review and
   bibliometric analysis on the research agenda proposed above . results : the
   findings reveal that technological industry 4.0 ( ir 4.0 ) tools face
   specific barriers due to the scope and objective of the application .
   conclusion : the internet of things has received more attention than any
   other ir 4.0 tool . more integration between the specialized tools is needed
   to address this issue . furthermore , the authors have proposed a food
   supply chain based operational framework on technological inclusion to
   facilitate the roadmap for food supply chain 4.0 for more resilience and
   food supply chain viability
DE covid-19 disruptions; food quality; food safety; food supply transformation;
   food sustainability; supply chain 40; systematic review

---

UT 728
AR Gao L/1, 2024, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P113, DOI 10.1145/3686215.3686218
TI Computational Gastronomy and Eating with Acoustophoresis
AU Gao L/1; Tokuda Y; Bansal S; Subramanian S
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2024
AB technology driven human food interaction has gained increasing attention and
   importance from researchers . digital food fabrication and computational
   food experiences have introduced greater technical challenges . recent
   advances in acoustophoresis , which uses ultrasound to contactlessly
   manipulate solid and liquid materials for multisensory experiences , show
   great potential for computational food fabrication and human food
   interaction . this work discusses the potential opportunities and challenges
   of acoustophoretic technology in the human food interaction ( hfi ) domain .
   we envisage that acoustophoretic technology can serve as a versatile
   platform for emerging computational gastronomy and eating , providing
   promising new technical solutions with diverse food processing
   functionalities without requiring multiple specialized kitchen equipment and
   large spaces , and enhancing the interactivity possibilities in different
   eating scenarios . we aim to inspire more innovative research ideas and
   enrich the perspectives on computation and interaction in hfi
DE acoustophoresis; computational gastronomy; human food interaction
ID food ingredients; food processing; acoustophoresis; computational
   gastronomy; human food interactions; interaction domain; liquid materials;
   multisensory; processing functionality; solid material; technical
   challenges; technical solutions; food chemistry

---

UT 729
AR Eftimov T, 2019, FOOD CHEM, V277, P382, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2018.10.118
TI ISO-FOOD ontology: A formal representation of the knowledge within the
   domain of isotopes for food science
AU Eftimov T; Ispirova G; Potočnik D; Ogrinc N; Seljak BK/1
TC 27
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2019
AB to link and harmonize different knowledge repositories with respect to
   isotopic data , we propose an iso food ontology as a domain ontology for
   describing isotopic data within food science . the iso food ontology
   consists of metadata and provenance data that needs to be stored together
   with data elements in order to describe isotopic measurements with all
   necessary information required for future analysis . the new domain has been
   linked with existing ontologies , such as units of measurements ontology ,
   food , nutrient and the bibliographic ontology . to show how such an
   ontology can be used in practice , it was populated with 20 isotopic
   measurements of slovenian food samples . describing data in this way offers
   a powerful technique for organizing and sharing stable isotope data across
   food science
DE iso-food ontology; isotopic data; ontology development; semantic web
ID databases factual; food technology; isotopes; metadata; vocabulary
   controlled; isotopes; semantic web; stable isotope; isotope; domain
   ontologies; food ontology; formal representations; isotopic data; isotopic
   measurement; knowledge repository; ontology development; stable isotope
   data; article; food; food intake; food safety; measurement; metadata;
   methodology; nutrient; nutritional science; ontology; sample; chemistry;
   classification; controlled vocabulary; factual database; food handling;
   ontology

---

UT 730
AR [Anonymous], 2025, INT CONF ICT SMART SOC ICISS, DOI
   10.1109/ICISS66954.2025.11389723
TI The Influence of Food Recommendation Systems on Customer Satisfaction in
   Food Delivery Applications in Indonesia
TC 0
SO INT CONF ICT SMART SOC ICISS
PY 2025
AB food recommendation system is an intelligent system used to suggest food to
   users based on individual preferences , ordering history , time , and other
   factors . the development of digital services in the culinary industry has
   encouraged the use of food recommendation systems as a technology that plays
   a significant part in raising client satisfaction and service efficiency .
   this system is designed to present relevant food recommendations based on
   user preferences , ordering history , consumption time , and other digital
   behaviors . this study aims to examine the performance of the food
   recommendation system and see whether this system affects user behavior when
   ordering food using a food delivery application . there are 162 respondent s
   data that have been collected through the distribution of questionnaires .
   spss ( statistical package for social sciences ) version 26 was used to
   analyze the data from the respondents . the results of the research that has
   been conducted show that the presence of a food recommendation system on the
   food delivery service application has helped users in making decisions when
   the user want to buy food
DE accuracy of recommendation; customer satisfaction; diversity of
   recommendation; food recommendation systems
ID behavioral research; intelligent systems; accuracy of recommendation; client
   services; customers satisfaction; digital services; diversity of
   recommendation; food delivery; food recommendation system; individual
   preference; indonesia; preference order; customer satisfaction

---

UT 731
AR Nadia D, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2606 CCIS, P226, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-01922-6_19
TI NutriSafe: Anti-Allergy Food Recommendation System Based on Content and Word
   Embedding
AU Nadia D; Nawal S-H; Hicham R; Djihad H
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems have become increasingly popular in recent years
   . with the growth of online commerce and the availability of a wide variety
   of food products , it becomes difficult for consumers to make informed
   choices . this is where food recommendation systems come into play . the
   objective of this work is to propose a food recommendation system to help
   consumers make choices that are tailored to their individual needs . the
   proposed system provides personalized nutritional recommendations taking
   into account preferences , allergies , and the health status of the patients
   . to do this , we have exploited dishes and their ingredients using the word
   embedding technique , notably glove and binary representation . then , we
   measured distances using three different methods , namely , cosine
   similarity , euclidean distance , and manhattan distance . the results of
   various experiments show that our system was able to recommend relevant
   foods taking into account the allergies and health issues of each user
DE allergies; allergy; binary representation; content-based filtering; foods;
   glove; recommendation system; similarity measurement; word embedding
ID electronic commerce; embeddings; food ingredients; food products; online
   systems; recommender systems; anti allergies; binary representations;
   content-based filtering; embedding technique; embeddings; glove; health
   status; online commerce; similarity measurements; word embedding; allergies

---

UT 732
AR Giridharan S, 2021, J PHYS CONF SER, V1717, DOI
   10.1088/1742-6596/1717/1/012035
TI Mid-day meal analytics using machine learning
AU Giridharan S; Manikandan S; Kumari MN
TC 3
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2021
AB the concept is to prevent the wastage of food from the mid day meal scheme
   and to identify the fraudulence that is being happened in the mid day meal
   scheme . in this process , qr code reader is used to the number of students
   is enroll their count for food within some pre determined time through their
   id card . a touch screen display is placed at the food issuing place which
   shows the menu for a particular day . food can be monitored through a web
   camera and it also placed at the food issuing place take snapshot of every
   individual student which provides the count of students reported with the
   required students count the amount of food needs to be prepared for that day
   is known . this snapshot photo is compared with the photo taken by the web
   camera at the place where the food is prepared . the raspberry pi is to
   process the machine learning concept to identify the meal . to develop the
   mobile application to send the notification to a higher authority when
   fraudulence action is detected via camera . 2021 institute of physics
   publishing
DE qr code; raspberry pi; touch screen display; web camera
ID cameras; students; touch screens; id cards; mobile applications; qr codes;
   touch screen displays; web camera; machine learning

---

UT 733
AR Tucci M, 2024, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V8, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2024.100765
TI The MED_EAT-IT approach: A modelling study to develop feasible, sustainable
   and nutritionally targeted dietary patterns based on the Planetary health
   diet
AU Tucci M; Martini D; Vinelli V; Biscotti P; Porrini M; Del Bo’ C; Riso P
TC 7
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2024
AB in 2019 , the eat lancet commission introduced the planetary health diet (
   phd ) , a guide for creating 2500 kcal / day country specific sustainable
   diets that promote health while reducing the environmental impact associated
   with food systems . the phd was previously adapted to the italian food
   context , resulting in the eat it dietary pattern . however , this
   adaptation revealed several challenges in terms of nutritional adequacy ,
   feasibility , and environmental impact . this study reports on strategies to
   improve the previous pattern and align it more closely with the
   mediterranean diet , resulting in the med_eat it pattern . the study also
   explores feasible strategies for adapting this pattern to different energy
   targets , enhancing its scalability and promoting personalized approaches .
   for the optimization of this pattern , a specific calculation tool was
   developed to introduce variation to the pattern , considering realistic and
   feasible serving sizes and frequency of consumption . this tool integrates a
   defined food ontology , food composition data , and two environmental impact
   metrics ( carbon and water footprint ) . to optimize nutritional adequacy ,
   several adaptations of the amount within the different food groups were made
   , for instance by increasing cereals and animal source by 25.5 % kcal / day
   and 36.2 % kcal / day respectively compared to eat it . the resulting 2500
   kcal / die pattern meets all nutritional requirements except for vitamin d
   and does not hamper the possibility to limit environmental impact ( carbon
   footprint increased only by 12.2 % but water footprint decreased by 6.3 % )
   . lower energy targets were achieved by modulating amounts of the different
   food groups to ensure nutritional adequacy . the strategies and tools
   proposed here could aid in optimizing dietary plans , evaluating their
   potential for environmental impact reduction , and identifying issues that
   could hinder their adoption . furthermore , the analyzes carried out pave
   the way for the potential future development of new or improved foods that
   may contribute to the optimization of nutritional and environmental impact
   of diets
DE diet optimization; food systems; nutritional adequacy; planetary health
   diet; sustainable diets
ID carbon; vitamin d; water; adaptation; adult; article; carbon footprint;
   cereal; controlled study; diet; diet optimization; dietary pattern;
   environmental impact; environmental sustainability; female; food
   composition; food system; human; italy; med eat it dietary pattern;
   mediterranean diet; nutritional adequacy; nutritional assessment;
   nutritional requirement; planetary health; planetary health diet;
   sustainable diet; water footprint

---

UT 734
AR Latha MH, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1297, P563, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-3352-4_42
TI Intelligent Recipe Recommendation System with Health Insights Using Transfer
   Learning and Ensemble Learning
AU Latha MH; Kalyani CH; Ankitha S; Ashok P
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB the study introduces an improved approach for suggesting recipes using deep
   learning and machine learning techniques in response to the increasing need
   for individualized and health conscious cooking solutions . the proposed
   technique blends transfer learning with ensemble learning in a fluid two
   step process to enhance the accuracy and practicality of recipe suggestions
   . the first phase entails feeding specific elements into the system while
   the second phase involves feeding specific elements into a transfer learning
   model that accurately categorizes the said elements . then , a random forest
   algorithm transitions the list of features that have been identified to
   follow a natural progression in group learning . as the last step , the
   transfer and group learning form the basis of a complex , solid recipe
   program . the ability of the system to provide personalized recipes based on
   identified ingredients is its main characteristic . transfer and group
   learning combine to improve the accuracy and reliability of recommendations
   and ensure a wide variety of delicious foods . the process is comprehensive
   and provides the user with immediate information on the health benefits of
   the recipe upon receipt of personalized prescription recommendations . this
   crucial component enhances the user experience by encouraging a
   knowledgeable and health conscious attitude to food choices . by combining
   cutting edge machine learning with nutritional expertise , this research not
   only creates the first more accurate and customized recipe suggestion system
   but also establishes the groundwork for a fundamental change in the way
   individuals approach their culinary preferences . the marriage of technology
   with health consciousness is a significant development in fostering a
   healthy relationship between modern food and individual well being
DE ensemble learning; health conscious; machine learning; random forest
   algorithm; recipe recommendation; transfer learning
ID deep learning; food ingredients; random forests; recommender systems;
   transfer learning; ensemble learning; group learning; health conscious;
   machine learning techniques; machine learning; random forest algorithm;
   recipe recommendation; second phase; transfer learning; two-step process;
   learning systems

---

UT 735
AR Ahmadian S, 2025, KNOWL SYST SYST, V67, P3699, DOI
   10.1007/s10115-024-02331-z
TI A healthy and reliable rating profile expansion approach to address data
   sparsity in food recommendation systems
AU Ahmadian S; Rostami M/1; Jalali SMJ; Oussalah M; Farrahi V
TC 3
SO KNOWL SYST SYST
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems have become increasingly popular due to the
   proliferation of online food service websites . accordingly , the ratings
   assigned by users are one of the most important resources in these systems .
   however , users generally express their opinions about a few foods , which
   results in data sparsity . furthermore , food recommendation is a health
   critical task , as recommending unhealthy foods to users may threaten their
   health . in this paper , we developed a novel rating profile expansion
   approach for food recommenders that considers both health and reliability
   measures . this approach enhances the efficiency of the user s rating
   profile by including healthy and reliable virtual ratings . specifically ,
   we introduce a probabilistic rating profile evaluation technique to
   determine whether a profile needs to be expanded . then , those profiles
   with an insufficient number of ratings are automatically expanded by adding
   virtual ratings obtained using the opinions of users who belong to the
   target user s community . for this purpose , the users are grouped using a
   novel time aware community detection algorithm based on their preferences .
   moreover , a health aware reliability measure is proposed so that only the
   most reliable virtual ratings are accounted for in the target user s rating
   profile expansion . therefore , the developed approach not only mitigates
   issues stemming from sparse data in food recommendation systems but also
   makes them more effective in recommending healthy foods to users .
   experiments conducted on two publicly available real world datasets
   demonstrated that the developed system is superior to other baseline models
DE community detection; data sparsity; food recommendation system; health;
   reliability
ID community detection; community detection algorithms; critical tasks; data
   sparsity; food recommendation system; foodservices; health measures;
   probabilistics; reliability measure; sparse data; electronic health record

---

UT 736
AR Gao X/2, 2020, IEEE TRANS MULTIMED, V22, P1647, DOI 10.1109/TMM.2019.2945180
TI Hierarchical Attention Network for Visually-Aware Food Recommendation
AU Gao X/2; Feng F; He X/1; Huang H; Guan X; Feng C/1; Ming Z; Chua T-S
TC 111
SO IEEE TRANS MULTIMED
PY 2020
AB food recommender systems play an important role in assisting users to
   identify the desired food to eat . deciding what food to eat is a complex
   and multi faceted process , which is influenced by many factors such as the
   ingredients , appearance of the recipe , the user s personal preference on
   food , and various contexts like what had been eaten in the past meals .
   this work formulates the food recommendation problem as predicting user
   preference on recipes based on three key factors that determine a user s
   choice on food , namely , 1 ) the user s ( and other users ) history . 2 )
   the ingredients of a recipe . and 3 ) the descriptive image of a recipe . to
   address this challenging problem , this work develops a dedicated neural
   network based solution hierarchical attention based food recommendation (
   hafr ) which is capable of : 1 ) capturing the collaborative filtering
   effect like what similar users tend to eat . 2 ) inferring a user s
   preference at the ingredient level . and 3 ) learning user preference from
   the recipe s visual images . to evaluate our proposed method , this work
   constructs a large scale dataset consisting of millions of ratings from
   allrecipes . com . extensive experiments show that our method outperforms
   several competing recommender solutions like factorization machine and
   visual bayesian personalized ranking with an average improvement of 12 % ,
   offering promising results in predicting user preference on food
DE collaborative filtering; food recommender systems; hierarchical attention;
   ingredients; recipe image
ID large dataset; bayesian; factorization machines; large-scale dataset;
   network-based solutions; personal preferences; user preferences; visual
   image; collaborative filtering

---

UT 737
AR Raj Kumar B, 2015, INT J APPL ENG RES, V10, P2765
TI DFRS: Diet food recommendation system for diabetic patients based on
   ontology
AU Raj Kumar B; Latha K
TC 8
SO INT J APPL ENG RES
PY 2015
AB healthy diet is the most effectual approach to prevent disease . food and
   victuals is a key to have good health . in this paper , we describe some
   real world application like personal diabetic diet recommendation . now days
   , there is variety of different approaches and algorithms of diabetic food
   analysis and diet recommendation . this paper proposes food ontology
   constructed for diabetes and novel content and collaborative based approach
   for diet recommended system . in addition , specifically we propose that the
   hybrid recommendations and user satisfaction must be an important
   consideration . the fo is composed of ontology structure with clustering
   algorithms . the system developed is capable of generating a dietetic plan
   and filter out unsuitable food on site according to user s health conditions
   and the accessible food information . finally , the outcome results show
   that the proposed work can provide the better accuracy and save the
   computational time and improves performance . 2015 , research india
   publications .
DE collaborative based reasoning; diabetes; food ontology; food recommendation
   system; nutrition ontology

---

UT 738
AR Chakraborty SS, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1369 LNNS, P13, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-5860-2_2
TI Enhancing Food Demand Forecasting to Minimize Food Waste in Supply Chains: A
   Hybrid ARIMA-DQN Framework
AU Chakraborty SS; Thakurta PKG
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB this paper presents a hybrid framework to improve food demand forecasting
   and reduce food waste in supply chain management . traditional forecasting
   methods lack to address the uncertainties in food demand , leading to
   significant food loss . by integrating the autoregressive integrated moving
   average ( arima ) model for capturing linear trends with a deep q network (
   dqn ) for adaptive decision making in the proposed work , the proposed
   hybrid model can overcome these limitations . utilizing a comprehensive
   dataset , the arima model effectively captures seasonal trends , while the
   dqn enhances prediction accuracy by learning from real time fluctuations and
   market conditions . the results demonstrate that the proposed hybrid model
   has achieved a mean absolute error ( mae ) of 0.123 and an r squared ( r2 )
   value of 0.92 , significantly outperforming the standalone arima model ( mae
   of 0.150 , r squared of 0.80 ) dqn model ( mae of 0.130 , r squared of 0.85
   ) and xgboost model ( mae of 0.136 , r squared of 0.866 ) . the findings
   highlight the efficacy of hybridization , presenting a promising solution
   for enhancing food demand forecasting and addressing the critical issue of
   food waste within global supply chains
DE arima; demand forecasting; dqn; food losses; food waste; supply chain
   management
ID autoregressive moving average model; decision making; food supply; food
   waste; forecasting; waste management; autoregressive; autoregressive
   integrated moving average; chain management; deep q-network; demand
   forecasting; food demand; food loss; food waste; mean absolute error; moving
   averages; supply chain management

---

UT 739
AR Koçyiğit B, 2026, EAI/SPRINGER INNO COMM COMP, P63, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-92143-8_5
TI Effects of Communication Channels on Explainable Food Recommendation Systems
AU Koçyiğit B; Buzcu B; Calvaresi D; Kesemen Z; Hulstijn J; Tchappi I; Aydoğan
   R
TC 0
SO EAI/SPRINGER INNO COMM COMP
PY 2026
AB this chapter examines the effects of communication channels on user
   engagement , acceptance , and satisfaction within a personalized food
   recommendation system , which provides explanations . we tested two
   conditions : a tablet web interface and a humanoid robot along with a tablet
   . our findings demonstrate that , despite occasional user frustrations with
   the robot s slower response time and overall interaction style , the robot s
   presence enhances the social perception of the interaction . overall , the
   results suggest potential for socially interactive robots
DE effect of communication medium; food recommender systems; human-robot
   interaction; xai
ID anthropomorphic robots; communication channels ( information theory ); human
   computer interaction; man machine systems; social robots; communication
   media; communications channels; condition; effect of communication medium;
   food recommender system; humans-robot interactions; user engagement; users
   acceptance; users satisfactions; xai; recommender systems

---

UT 740
AR Sharma T, 2020, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P98, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW49219.2020.00007
TI Hierarchical clustering of world cuisines
AU Sharma T; Upadhyay U; Kalra J; Arora S; Ahmad S; Aggarwal B; Bagler G
TC 4
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2020
AB cultures across the world have evolved to have unique patterns despite
   shared ingredients and cooking techniques . using data obtained from
   recipedb , an online resource for recipes , we extract patterns in 26 world
   cuisines and further probe for their inter relatedness . by application of
   frequent itemset mining and ingredient authenticity we characterize the
   quintessential patterns in the cuisines and build a hierarchical tree of the
   world cuisines . this tree provides interesting insights into the evolution
   of cuisines and their geographical as well as historical relatedness
DE authenticity correlation; food ontology; hierarchical clustering; k-means
   clustering; pattern mining
ID technical presentations; frequent itemset mining; hierarchical tree; online
   resources; hierarchical clustering

---

UT 741
AR Vanarse VB, 2024, UTIL MICROFLUID FOOD IND APPL TECH, P333, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-13453-1.00017-6
TI Information and communication technology-linked applications in the food
   industry
AU Vanarse VB; Parmar PR; Bandyopadhyay D
TC 1
SO UTIL MICROFLUID FOOD IND APPL TECH
PY 2024
AB in the present era , the rapid growth in the global population and
   subsequent initiatives to ensure food security have led to the large scale
   production of various food and agro products , which have propped up fresh
   challenges in mitigating foodborne diseases and related fatalities . in
   order to predict and overcome any calamity associated with these aspects ,
   lately , the agriculture and food industries have started taking advantage
   of modern technologies due to their multifaceted functionality and
   reliability . for example , such initiatives have led to agri food 4.0 of
   information and communication technology ( ict ) in the agri food industry
   that contemplates the competence of the internet of things ( iot ) to
   mitigate the problems of the common human being . the concept of 4.0
   embraces manufacturing digitization by augmenting the digital connectivity
   of factories to processes and products , giving rise to smart plants that
   integrate advanced manufacturing technologies and better communication with
   all the process components . this process smartness allows quick data
   processing from machines to avoid errors and can implement added production
   requirements immediately to improve the quality and performance . the
   development of new technologies is based on the notion of sense , smartness
   , and sustainability ( s3 ) that enables the food industry to respond to
   current challenges in the sector with the help of a systematic approach
   toward the process required for the new product and development . in this
   regard , one of the major pain points is the generation of accurate data at
   the point of care level on which most of the decision making ability of the
   iot and ict platforms depend . among other methodologies , microfluidic
   technologies have grabbed tremendous attention in the research community for
   their large scale usage in generating accurate and specific data in the
   aforementioned aspects . microfluidics comes along with reliability with
   ease due to tiny volumes , ease of multitasking , high precision data
   generation abilities , and ease of integration to the iot and ict platforms
   . in addition to that , it offers meager chemical and power consumption with
   low cost fabrication , leading to the addition of its biocompatibility and
   improved analytical performance . this technology offers potential
   applications in the food industry , such as food safety in terms of
   detecting excess chemical residues in fruits and vegetables , pathogens ,
   antibiotic traces , and food and water toxicity control via monitoring . in
   this chapter , we focus on discussing the elementary and probable steps that
   can bring the iot , ict , and microfluidics together to take advantage of
   these state of the art technologies to transform the food industry so that
   food safety , security , and quality can be assured
DE ict; industry 40; iot; microfluidics; sense; smartness; sustainability

---

UT 742
AR Shen P-I, 2024, PROC - INT SYMP COMPUT NETW WORK CANDARW, P406, DOI
   10.1109/CANDARW64572.2024.00079
TI AI-Based Multi-Objective Optimization Algorithm for Intelligent School Lunch
   Menu Planning System
AU Shen P-I; Huang D-S; Wang J-S; Yang Y-TC
TC 3
SO PROC - INT SYMP COMPUT NETW WORK CANDARW
PY 2024
AB this study developed an ai based intelligent menu planning system that
   integrates big data analytics and nutritional expertise to automate the
   generation of school lunch menus that meet nutritional standards . the
   system s algorithm consists of four key processes : ( 1 ) data preprocessing
   , ( 2 ) menu reshuffling , ( 3 ) menu extraction , and ( 4 ) menu
   optimization . historical menus are reorganized and selected through multi
   criteria decision analysis ( mcda ) , and further optimized using an
   optimization based recommendation model ( omrm ) and multi objective
   optimization to ensure appropriate portions of the six major food groups . a
   field study involving 10 schools demonstrated that the system significantly
   aids nutritionists and lunch administrators in generating balanced menus
   while reducing planning time by an average of 20 minutes . additionally , it
   was confirmed that the menus generated by the system were more nutritionally
   balanced compared to those created manually by experienced dietitians ,
   particularly in achieving the correct portion sizes for the six major food
   groups
DE food recommender system; menu planning problem; multi-criteria decision
   analysis; multi-objective optimization; nutritional information
ID data analytics; food recommender system; menu planning problem; multi-
   criteria decision analysis; multi-objectives optimization; nutritional
   information; optimizations; optimization algorithms; planning problem;
   planning systems; food ingredients

---

UT 743
AR Takahashi O, 2022, PROC - INT CONGR ADV APPL INFORMATICS WINTER IIAI-AAI-
   WINTER, P230, DOI 10.1109/IIAI-AAI-Winter58034.2022.00052
TI A Dinner Menu & Recipe Recommendation System with Food Expiration-date
   Notification Functions
AU Takahashi O; Sasaki S
TC 8
SO PROC - INT CONGR ADV APPL INFORMATICS WINTER IIAI-AAI-WINTER
PY 2022
AB this paper presents a design of a dinner menu and recipe recommendation
   system with food expiration date notification functions , which aims to
   reduce household food loss and improve the quality of life of users . the
   social contribution of this research is food loss reduction . when a user of
   our system purchases food products at a supermarket , the user can sense and
   acquire the products information by using our system s code reader and
   complete his / her payment simultaneously with a payment application . the
   food product information is accumulated in our application s database in a
   real time in the supermarket . the system reminds the expiration date of the
   purchased food products and recommends the menu and the recipes of the meal
   which can be cooked with foods close to the expiration date at dinner time
   at home . the feature of our system is that the system contributes to the
   reduction of household food loss and the burden on the environment , as well
   as the improvement of the user s quality of life and the promotion of better
   living by providing access to a wide variety of dishes , which can be called
   as a sustainable cooking
DE cooking; food; food loss; menu; qol; recipe; recommendation; sdg12; sdg2;
   sdg3; smart life; sustainability; well being
ID cooking; food products; recommender systems; retail stores; food loss; menu;
   qol; recipe; recommendation; sdg12; sdg2; sdg3; smart life; well being;
   sustainable development

---

UT 744
AR Gusti Agung Gede Arya Kadyanan I, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P111, DOI
   10.1145/3330482.3330490
TI The design of typical Balinese food recommendation system using hybrid
   method of collaborative filtering and slope one algorithm on mobile device
   platform
AU Gusti Agung Gede Arya Kadyanan I; Gede Dwidasmara IB; Made Mahendra IB;
   Komang Ari Mogi I; Wayan Puguh Sudarma I
TC 3
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB as a result of globalization in indonesia especially bali , the existence of
   fast food and food stalls owned by people from outside bali , causing food
   stalls typical of bali to be marginalized . previous research by ( darmaja ,
   2016 ) succeded in making a recommendation system for balinese food stalls
   on mobile platforms . the weakness seen from previous research documentation
   report , one of them is the use of collaborative filtering method which only
   use rating item as recommendation parameter of balinese typical food stalls
   , causing new food stalls which do not have rating are less accessed in the
   system because they can not be recommended by system . the purpose of this
   study is that the typical balinese food stalls that rarely get a rating can
   be recommended evenly with the help of ichm ( item based clustering hybrid
   method ) and slope one algorithm . the result of the research is
   recommendation system of bali food stalls in website and mobile platform by
   using throwaway prototype system development method , with recommendation
   accuracy based on the lowest mae value of 0,11 and the highest is 1,06 and
   new items entered on the system ( not yet rated ) may be recommended based
   on item content in the ichm method
DE balinese food; ichm; recommendation; slope one
ID artificial intelligence; collaborative filtering; drilling platforms;
   collaborative filtering methods; ichm; mobile platform; prototype system;
   recommendation; recommendation accuracy; research documentation; slope ones;
   recommender systems

---

UT 745
AR Stojanov R, 2020, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA, P3596, DOI
   10.1109/BigData50022.2020.9378066
TI Toward Robust Food Ontology Mapping
AU Stojanov R; Kocev I; Gramatikov S; Popovski G; Seljak BK; Eftimov T
TC 4
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA
PY 2020
AB data normalization methodologies are extremely welcome to link extracted
   information from textual data to different semantic resources . these
   methodologies have been previously well researched especially in the
   biomedical domain , where health concepts were normalized and described
   using semantic tags . recently , a methodology for normalizing food concepts
   has been proposed , based on named entity recognition methods resulting in
   the foodontomap semantic resource . in this paper , we propose and evaluate
   a new architecture for linking phrases ( i . e . textual name for foods ) to
   concepts from semantic resources in the food and nutrition domain . we
   represent the food phrases ( i . e . their textual name ) in continuous
   vector space using state of the art natural language processing ( nlp )
   embedding algorithms , and evaluate their proximity with respect to the
   annotated semantic food concepts . additionally , indexing was incorporated
   to improve efficiency . the glove embedding with mean pooling provided best
   evaluation results , with maximum recall of 74 % for the snomed ct semantic
   dataset , which is promising result , but also opens a space for future
   improvement of the phrase representations , and their incorporation in this
   system
DE data normalization and linking; embeddings; natural language processing;
   text representation
ID natural language processing systems; semantics; vector spaces; data
   normalization; datalinking; embeddings; food ontology; language processing;
   natural language processing; natural languages; ontology mapping; semantic
   resources; text representation; embeddings

---

UT 746
AR Awfiyah AF, 2025, TECHNOL SUMMIT INFORMATICS INT CONF BTS-I2C, P126, DOI
   10.1109/BTS-I2C67944.2025.11399377
TI Food Recipe Recommender System Based on Available Ingredients Using Case-
   Based Reasoning
AU Awfiyah AF; Baizal ZKA
TC 0
SO TECHNOL SUMMIT INFORMATICS INT CONF BTS-I2C
PY 2025
AB nowadays , the public has a growing concern with regard to healthy living ,
   leading to an even greater demand for a system that could assist users in
   selecting a recipe according to the ingredients they have at home . the
   problem is becoming even more pressing , given that indonesia produces 14.73
   million tons of food waste each year , the highest level among countries in
   southeast asia , due to the limitations related to the optimization of food
   ingredient consumption . even if various studies have developed a recipe
   recommender system , the developed systems are still faced with the
   limitations related to a lack of adaptability to new circumstances and an
   inability to learn continuously even if they have past experiences related
   to their usage . considering this limitation , this paper will propose a
   case based reasoning based recipe recommender system that will learn
   actively and continually by implementing a learning cycle , retain . in this
   research , the system will make use of tf idf based material representation
   and will utilize the strategy related to the search by employing a cosine
   similarity approach , guaranteeing the system has the opportunity to learn
   by adding any new case automatically to the dynamic knowledge based . for
   this evaluation , it uses a prequential evaluation method that mimics online
   learning with temporal data splitting first 10 % of the data used for
   establishing the knowledge base with the rest treated sequentially . for
   every case entered into the system , testing serves to generate
   recommendations before storing the case for knowledge updates periodically .
   the simulation test has been conducted to compare the dynamic cbr model with
   a retain based strategy against a similar model lacking a learning strategy
   , resulting in a 61-70 % improvement , respectively , regarding all
   assessment parameters , including , ndcg@10 , recall@10 , precision@10 ,
   f1-score@10 , mrr . the simulation results presented an unforeseen
   opportunity to a number of applications related to food , affirming that the
   approach related to retain could significatively influence the results ,
   increasing their quality , as well as paving the grounds to future
   developments utilizing a more advanced model related to semantic arguments ,
   related to better accuracy rates by the system developed
DE case based reasoning; cosine similarity; food recipes; recommender system;
   tf-idf
ID e-learning; food additives; food ingredients; knowledge based systems;
   learning systems; semantics; case based reasonings ( cbr ); cosine
   similarity; food recipe; food waste; indonesia; learn+; optimizations;
   pressung; southeast asia; tf-idf; case based reasoning; recommender systems

---

UT 747
AR Singh R, 2025, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT ELECTRON ELECTR ENG APPL IC2E3, DOI
   10.1109/IC2E365635.2025.11166975
TI Comparative Study of Memory-Based and Model-Based Collaborative Filtering
   for Food Recommendations
AU Singh R; Pinheiro G; Ajagalla M
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT ELECTRON ELECTR ENG APPL IC2E3
PY 2025
AB food recommender systems are essential for providing consumers with tailored
   recipe recommendations according to their dietary requirements and
   preferences . traditional recommendation approaches , such as collaborative
   filtering , have been widely used but require a thorough evaluation to
   determine their effectiveness in the food domain . the allrecipes . com and
   food . com datasets were used in this study to compare and contrast memory
   based and model based collaborative filtering for food suggestion . using
   cosine , pearson , jaccard , and euclidean similarity metrics , the memory
   based method uses item based and user based collaborative filtering . we
   evaluate several model based techniques deep matrix factorization ( deepmf )
   , non negative matrix factorization ( nmf ) , singular value decomposition (
   svd ) , and its enhanced variant singular value decomposition++ ( svd++ ) .
   their effectiveness is measured using f1-score , mean absolute error ( mae )
   , and root mean squared error ( rmse ) . the results demonstrate that model
   based approaches consistently exceed memory based methods in accuracy , with
   deepmf delivering the best performance . among similarity measures , cosine
   similarity gives the best result for memory based filtering . the results
   point toward the requirement of proper recommendation methods and show
   potential future improvement with hybrid models as well as enhance
   explainability of food recommender systems
DE collaborative filtering; food recommender systems; memory-based recommedner
   systems; model-based recommender systems
ID artificial intelligence; food preservatives; mean square error; non-negative
   matrix factorization; recommender systems; singular value decomposition;
   comparatives studies; euclidean; food recommender system; matrix
   factorizations; memory-based recommedner system; model-based opc; model-
   based recommender system; similarity metrics; singular values; value
   decomposition; collaborative filtering

---

UT 748
AR Singh R, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1723 LNNS, P223, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-10783-1_17
TI Comparative Analysis of Similarity Metrics for User and Item-Based Food
   Recommender Systems
AU Singh R; Dwivedi P
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB a recommender systems ( rss ) is a software application designed to suggest
   items of interest to users by analyzing their preferences , behaviors , or
   past interactions . one of the most important and popular methods in
   recommender systems ( rss ) is collaborative filtering ( cf ) , which makes
   suggestions for items on the basis of user preferences and similarity with
   other users or products . the similarity metrics used to find these
   associations have a significant impact on how well cf performs . in this
   paper a systematic comparative evaluation of six widely used similarity
   measures ( cosine , adjusted cosine , pearson correlation , jaccard ,
   euclidean , manhattan ) and experimental analysis of several similarity
   metrics in both user based and item based cf are mentioned . we evaluated
   performance across multiple metrics ( mae , rmse , precision , recall , and
   f1-score ) to provide concrete , data driven guidance . we explain the
   theoretical background of each measure and discuss how dataset sparsity and
   rating distributions influence metric suitability , and assess their
   effectiveness using two datasets : food . com and allrecipes . com . our
   experiments show that cosine and jaccard similarity work best for user based
   cf . cosine similarity demonstrates strong performance on both allrecipes .
   com and food . com datasets for user based cf , while jaccard also shows
   competitive results on allrecipes . com . for item based cf , cosine
   similarity consistently outperforms other metrics . these observations
   highlight the effectiveness of specific similarity measures in enhancing the
   precision of collaborative filtering based recommendation systems
DE collaborative filtering; food recommender systems; item-based collaborative
   filtering; recommender systems; similarity measures; user-based
   collaborative filtering
ID application programs; correlation methods; comparative analyzes; cosine
   similarity; food recommender system; item-based; item-based collaborative
   filtering; performance; similarity measure; similarity metrics; software
   applications; user-based collaborative filtering; collaborative filtering;
   recommender systems

---

UT 749
AR Khanduri VD, 2025, IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW, P633, DOI
   10.1109/ICDMW69685.2025.00077
TI Cross-Cultural Recipe Transformation Via Neural Network and Encoder-Based
   Models
AU Khanduri VD; Goel M; Dabas L; Agarwal HK
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF DATA MIN WORK ICDMW
PY 2025
AB every cuisine has a culinary fingerprint characterized by its idiosyncratic
   ingredient composition . transforming this culinary signature across
   cuisines is a creative yet challenging task . traditionally , such fusion
   recipes have emerged through human experimentation and intuition . in this
   study , we propose a computational framework to systematically transform a
   recipe from one cuisine to another by replacing its ingredients with
   meaningful counterparts from the target cuisine . we employ a clustering
   based strategy using neural network based word2vec doc2vec models and three
   encoder based bert variants ( mean pooling , cls pooling , and sbert ) to
   capture the culinary context of ingredients . the models are evaluated on
   their success in recipe transformation and the quality of ingredient
   substitutions . results show that while the word2vec doc2vec model achieves
   the highest transformation success rate , bert based models produce more
   contextually meaningful substitutions with fewer ingredient replacements .
   these findings highlight the potential of encoder based models in
   facilitating cross cultural recipe transformation and advancing
   computational gastronomy
DE bert embeddings; ingredient replacement; natural language processing; recipe
   transformation; word2vec-doc2vec
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; food processing; food products; neural
   networks; signal encoding; bert embedding; creatives; embeddings; ingredient
   replacement; language processing; natural language processing; natural
   languages; neural networks; recipe transformation; word2vec-doc2vec; natural
   language processing systems

---

UT 750
AR Galanakis CM, 2020, INNOV FOOD ANAL, P1, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-819493-5.00014-5
TI Innovative Food Analysis
AU Galanakis CM
TC 4
SO INNOV FOOD ANAL
PY 2020
AB innovative food analysis presents a modern perspective on the development of
   robust , effective and sensitive techniques to ensure safety , quality and
   traceability of foods to meet industry standards . significant enhancements
   of analytical accuracy , precision , detection limits and sampling has
   expanded the practical range of food applications , hence this reference
   offers modern food analysis in view of new trends in analytical techniques
   and applications to support both the scientific community and industry
   professionals . this reference covers the latest topics across existing and
   new technologies , giving emphasis on food authenticity , traceability ,
   food fraud , food quality , food contaminants , sensory and nutritional
   analytics , and more

---

UT 751
AR Chang M/1, 2017, CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC, VPart F127655, P1524, DOI
   10.1145/3027063.3053118
TI RecipeScape: Mining and analyzing diverse processes in cooking recipes
AU Chang M/1; Kim J/3; Hare VM; Agrawala M
TC 8
SO CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC
PY 2017
AB in culture analytics , it is important to ask fundamental questions that
   address salient characteristics of collective human behavior [ 11 , 1 , 17 ]
   . this paper explores how analyzing cooking recipes in aggregate and at
   scale identifies these characteristics in the cooking culture , and answer
   fundamental questions like ' what makes a chocolate chip cookie a chocolate
   chip cookie ? ' . aspiring cooks , professional chefs and cooking hobbyists
   share their recipes online resulting in thousands of different procedural
   instructions toward a shared goal . however , existing approaches focus
   merely on analysis at the ingredient level , for example , extracting
   ingredient information from individual recipes . we introduce recipescape ,
   a prototype interface which supports visually querying , browsing and
   comparing cooking recipes at scale . we also present the underlying
   computational pipeline of recipescape that scrapes recipes online , extracts
   their ingredient and instruction information , constructs a graphical
   representation , and computes similarity between pairs of recipes
DE culture analytics; interactive data mining; mining at scale; naturally
   crowdsourced data; recipe mining
ID behavioral research; data mining; human computer interaction; human
   engineering; cooking recipe; graphical representations; human behaviors;
   interactive data mining; naturally crowdsourced data; prototype interface;
   cooking

---

UT 752
AR Ge M, 2015, RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST, P333, DOI
   10.1145/2792838.2796554
TI Health-aware food recommender system
AU Ge M; Ricci F; Massimo D
TC 144
SO RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST
PY 2015
AB with the rapid changes in the food variety and lifestyles , many people are
   facing the problem of making healthier food decisions to reduce the risk of
   chronic diseases such as obesity and diabetes . to this end , our
   recommender system not only offers recipe recommendations that suit the user
   s preference but is also able to take the user s health into account . it is
   developed on a mobile platform by considering that our application may be
   directly used in the kitchen . this demo paper summarizes the complete human
   computer interaction design , the implemented health aware recommendation
   algorithm and preliminary user feedback
DE food; recommender systems; smart health; utility
ID food ingredients; chronic disease; healthy foods; human computer interaction
   designs; mobile platform; recommendation algorithms; smart health; user
   feedback; user preferences; utility

---

UT 753
AR Yap Z-T, 2024, COGENT ENG, V11, DOI 10.1080/23311916.2024.2436125
TI Hybrid-based food recommender system utilizing KNN and SVD approaches
AU Yap Z-T; Haw S-C; Binti Ruslan NE
TC 8
SO COGENT ENG
PY 2024
AB in the era of digital platforms and abundant data , food recommender systems
   have been essential tools for guiding individuals to discover preferences
   and perfect meals . nowadays , the wide variety of available food options
   presents a challenge for consumers seeking personalized meals and relevant
   recommendations . by dynamically allocating evaluations based on user
   behavior and item characteristics , the system aims to increase the variety
   and precision of dietary recommendations . furthermore , the system will
   implement continuous learning mechanisms to responds to fluctuations in user
   preferences over time , ensuring sustained high levels of user satisfaction
   . therefore , the primary objective of this paper is to design and implement
   the recommender system , test and evaluate the hybrid recommender system and
   explore the various recommendation techniques . besides that , this paper
   will discuss the combination of various algorithms : collaborative filtering
   , content based filtering , and hybrid approaches . the expected outcome of
   this research is a robust recommender system that provides accurate and
   relevant food recommendations to individual preferences . in conclusion , a
   system with a graphical user interface will be implemented so that the end
   user and administrator can visualize it for better insight into decision
   making
DE algorithms  and  complexity; artificial intelligence; collaborative
   filtering; computer science ( general ); content-based filtering; food
   recommendation system; hybrid approach; recommendation system

---

UT 754
AR El Majjodi A, 2024, CEUR WORK PROC, V3823, P55
TI Advancing Visual Food Attractiveness Predictions for Healthy Food
   Recommender System
AU El Majjodi A; Khan SA; Starke AD; Elahi M; Trattner C
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2024
AB the visual representation of food on digital platforms affects the foods
   chosen by users , including in the context of recommender systems . previous
   studies show that small changes in visual features can influence human
   decision making , regardless of whether the food is healthy . this paper
   reports on a study aimed at better understanding how users perceive the
   attractiveness of food recipe images in the digital world . in an online
   mixed methods survey ( n = 192 ) , users provided visual attractiveness
   ratings of food images on a 7-point scale , along with textual assessments .
   we found robust correlations between fundamental visual features ( e . g . ,
   contrast , colorfulness ) and perceived image attractiveness . the analysis
   also revealed that , among other user factors , cooking skills positively
   affected perceived image attractiveness . regarding food image dimensions ,
   appearance and perceived healthiness were significantly correlated with user
   ratings of food image attractiveness
DE digital nudges; food recommender systems; health; image attractiveness;
   personalization; user modeling
ID food chemistry; digital nudge; digital platforms; food image; food
   recommender system; healthy foods; image attractiveness; personalizations;
   user modeling; visual feature; visual representations; food ingredients

---

UT 755
AR [Anonymous], 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF SEMANT COMPUT ICSC
TI Proceedings - 18th IEEE International Conference on Semantic Computing, ICSC
   2024
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF SEMANT COMPUT ICSC
PY 2024
AB the proceedings contain 58 papers . the topics discussed include : parsybot
   : chatbot for baskent university related faqs . anomaly detection through
   graph autoencoder based learning of screenshot image logs . functional food
   knowledge graph based recipe recommendation system focused on lifestyle
   related diseases . unsupervised ensemble semantic segmentation for
   foreground background separation on satellite image . twig : toward pre hoc
   hyperparameter optimization and cross graph generalization via simulated kge
   models . leveraging dali to refine route planning by dynamically avoiding
   risky pois . temporal analysis of editorial trends in major newspapers
   following the prime minister s speech . trend extraction and analysis via
   large language models . stable or shaky ? the semantics of chatgpt s
   behavior under repeated queries . and refresh relation preserving feedback
   reliant enhancement of subjective content descriptions .

---

UT 756
AR Ayranci AA, 2026, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, DOI 10.1007/s11694-026-04491-8
TI Rapid electronic sensing technologies for ensuring food safety against
   pesticide residues: a comprehensive review
AU Ayranci AA; Erkmen B
TC 0
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2026
AB the persistence of pesticide residues in the global food supply chain
   requires rapid , reliable , and continuous measurement methods to ensure
   consumer safety and regulatory compliance . conventional analytical
   techniques provide exceptional precision . however , their destructive
   nature , high operational costs , and strict reliance on laboratory
   environments make them unsuitable for real time screening in food processing
   facilities . this review examines the latest advancements in non destructive
   electronic sensing technologies specifically designed for characterizing
   pesticide residues in post harvest food matrices . the analysis focuses on
   the analytical capabilities of electrochemical sensors , biosensors ,
   electronic nose ( e nose ) platforms , and optical measurement systems ,
   while critically evaluating how these platforms handle complex food matrix
   interferences , particularly background volatile organic compounds ( vocs )
   , moisture fluctuations , and matrix dependent signal variability .
   particular attention is given to signal analysis and processing strategies ,
   including spectral preprocessing , chemometric modeling , feature extraction
   , pattern recognition , sensor drift compensation , and machine learning (
   ml ) -based classification of pesticide signatures . furthermore , the
   deployment of edge computing architectures is analyzed for its role in
   enabling decentralized , real time signal processing directly on the
   production line . to establish practical viability for the food industry ,
   the limits of detection achieved by various electronic configurations are
   benchmarked against international maximum residue limits . finally , the
   paper addresses persistent hardware and methodological limitations ,
   including sensor drift , calibration transferability , and reproducibility
   under highly humid food storage environments . by synthesizing these
   engineering challenges with food quality requirements , this review provides
   a comprehensive roadmap for implementing next generation measurement systems
   in smart food supply chains
DE food matrix characterization; food safety monitoring; pesticide residue
   detection; smart food supply chain

---

UT 757
AR Al-Massoudi YMA, 2025, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V396 SIST, P129, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-8096-9_11
TI HealthyBaby: Prototype of an AI-Based Nutrition Recommendation Mobile
   Application for Pregnant Women
AU Al-Massoudi YMA; Mariya Shah UE; Anjum SS; Cherukuru P
TC 1
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB the purpose of this research was to develop an android ai based nutrition
   driven android app that is adapted to the needs of pregnant women . it can
   offer individualized food suggestions based on each person s unique dietary
   limitations and nutritional requirements . to achieve this , the researchers
   carried out an advanced background investigation to obtain a full grasp of
   the methods and strategies already in use for creating nutrition apps for
   pregnant women . based on this understanding , an advanced ai algorithm was
   developed that analyzes user data using machine learning techniques and
   gives consumers personalized nutritional suggestions . a performance
   analysis was carried out to assess the effectiveness of algorithms that have
   been in the development of the prototype . the evaluation was through
   relevant metrics . the performance analysis has shown that the proposed
   prototype might perform better than current methods in providing users with
   personalized nutrition recommendations if it integrates the logistic
   regression classifier algorithm with deep learning regression . nevertheless
   , in the future , the performance of the proposed algorithms involved in the
   developed prototype could be compared with the other algorithms involved in
   the mobile apps documented in scientific literature . the importance of
   personalized nutrition counseling based on dietary limitations and unique
   requirements is emphasized in this study , along with the potential benefits
   of ai powered nutrition apps for enhancing the health of expectant mothers
   and their developing fetuses
DE ai-based nutrition; deep learning regression; fetal health; logistic
   regression classifier; machine learning; maternal health; personalized food
   recommendations; pregnant women
ID adversarial machine learning; logistic regression; ai-based nutrition; deep
   learning regression; fetal health; logistic regression classifier; machine
   learning; maternal healths; mobile applications; performances analysis;
   personalized food recommendation; pregnant woman; electronic health record

---

UT 758
AR Gallo I, 2022, SUSTAIN, V14, DOI 10.3390/su14073833
TI Food Recommendations for Reducing Water Footprint
AU Gallo I; Landro N; La Grassa R; Turconi A
TC 20
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2022
AB most existing food related research efforts focus on recipe retrieval , user
   preference based food recommendation , kitchen assistance , or nutritional
   and caloric estimation of dishes , ignoring personalized and conscious food
   recommendations resources of the planet . therefore , in this work , we
   present a personalized food recommendation scheme , mapping the ingredients
   to the most resource friendly dishes on the planet and in particular ,
   selecting recipes that contain ingredients that consume as little water as
   possible for their production . the system proposed here is able to
   understand the user s behavior and to suggest tailor made recipes with lower
   water quantity used in production . by continuously using the system , the
   user can gradually reduce their water footprint and benefit from a healthier
   diet . the proposed recommendation system was compared with the results of
   two papers available in the literature that represent the state of the art ,
   obtaining similar results . therefore , the results of the presented
   recommendation system can be considered reliable
DE food recommendation system; food waste; good practice; sustainable food
   consumption; water footprint
ID estimation method; food consumption; food waste; preference behavior;
   research work; sustainability; water footprint

---

UT 759
AR Mekale SS, 2025, KSII TRANS INTERNET SYST, V19, P3750, DOI
   10.3837/tiis.2025.11.002
TI Diabetic Food Recommendation System Using LSTM with Self-Attention and Text
   GAN for Enhanced Novelty and Relevance
AU Mekale SS; Chakraborty M; Mukherjee C
TC 0
SO KSII TRANS INTERNET SYST
PY 2025
AB personalised meal recommendation systems are becoming progressively more
   useful for those with unique dietary needs , especially diabetics who must
   carefully plan their meals . this paper explores the potential of deep
   learning models to generate meal suggestions that are personalized to each
   individual and accommodate their circumstances . we experimented and
   compared several models , including lstm , gru , transformer , lstm with a
   self attention mechanism , and textgan , to determine how well they realized
   dietary requirements and provided meal suggestions in accordance with those
   requirements . the suggested approach includes pre processing data , using
   lstm to encode patient and food attributes , utilizing a twofold self
   attention mechanism to find important nutritional limits , using textgan to
   provide a variety of recommendations , and lastly decoding to generate user
   friendly meal recommendations . we employed typical natural language
   processing metrics to determine how well the models performed . these
   measures consider how well the recommendations aligned with the user s input
   language wise and meaning wise . the lstm with a self attention mechanism
   performed better than the remaining tested models , achieving perfect scores
   ( 1.0000 ) on all three measures . this indicates that it is more effective
   at grasping user preferences and dietary context . text generative
   adversarial networks ( gan ) also performed much better with hyper parameter
   tuning . as an example , bleu improved from 0.72-0.80 , and rouge 1 and
   rouge l also had comparable improvements . in conclusion , all these results
   indicate attention based models with generative architectures show strong
   potential for accurate , diverse , and personalized dietary recommendations
   . this effort paves the way for creating intelligent dietary aids that can
   assist individuals with diabetes in maintaining better health . 2025 ksii .
DE diabetes mellitus; food recommendations; lstm; self-attention; text gan
ID deep learning; natural language processing systems; nutrition; recommender
   systems; adversarial networks; attention mechanisms; diabetes mellitus; food
   recommendation; learning models; lstm; preprocessing; self-attention; text
   generative adversarial network; user friendly; data handling

---

UT 760
AR Khilji AFUR, 2023, SN COMPUT SCI, V4, DOI 10.1007/s42979-023-01870-6
TI Multimodal Recipe Recommendation System Using Deep Learning and Rule-Based
   Approach
AU Khilji AFUR; Sinha U; Singh P; Ali A/1; Dadure P; Manna R; Pakray P
TC 17
SO SN COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB in today s age of the internet , there is tremendous growth in information .
   moreover , this information can be easily accessed through different
   combinations of large scale interconnected networks . but the information
   available is highly unstructured and requires a certain degree of
   intelligence to garner the requisite information required by the user .
   hence , present age recommendation engines provide the most suitable answer
   considering different modalities of data , the most common form of which are
   text and images . due to the wide range of possibilities and increased
   awareness among users , the service should be highly satisfactory . this
   paper has contributed a recipe recommendation system that relies on deep
   learning and a rule based approach . it aims to recommend recipes based on
   input ingredients or food images . to test the proficiency of the designed
   recommendation system , we have created a dataset of recipes that mainly
   includes the recipe of food and their images . finally , the designed
   recommendation system allows users to look for the desired information
   through text and image searches
DE bert; cooking question classification; fasttext; image captioning; recipe
   embeddings; recipe recommendation

---

UT 761
AR Kikuma K, 2022, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P125, DOI 10.1145/3556223.3556242
TI A Study on Improving the Value of Ubiquitous Data on the Internet:
   Evaluation of a recipe recommendation system for food loss reduction as an
   example
AU Kikuma K; Honda T
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2022
AB in the iot era where all ' things ' are connected to the internet , a lot of
   information is overflowing on the internet . each piece of data on the
   internet is extremely valuable , but its effectiveness is limited by itself
   . in order to increase the value of information , it is necessary to
   coordinate the information and extract useful information . however , most
   of the obtained data is unformatted data that can be freely posted and has
   no type , and it is difficult to recognize and process it by a computer as
   it is . therefore , when using data on a computer , it is necessary to unify
   data formats and values . in this paper , we report specific examples and
   results of collecting data on the internet using cooking recipes in japan as
   a theme , automatically unifying the structure and values , and increasing
   the information value
DE data cleansing; recipe data; unformatted data
ID recommender systems; cooking recipe; data cleansing; food loss; information
   value; loss reduction; recipe data; ubiquitous data; unformatted data; value
   of information; cooking

---

UT 762
AR Jamil M, 2025, J EUR SYST AUTOM, V58, P2265, DOI 10.18280/jesa.581105
TI Design and Simulation of Smart Food Supply Chains for Island Regions Based
   on AI-LM Using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Approach
AU Jamil M; Rajak A; Asriany S
TC 0
SO J EUR SYST AUTOM
PY 2025
AB island regions face complex challenges in ensuring sustainable food supply
   due to geographic isolation , limited infrastructure , and fluctuating
   demandsupply conditions . this study proposes the artificial intelligence
   for logistics management ( ai lm ) framework to design and simulate smart
   food supply chains for archipelagic contexts , employing a long short term
   memory ( lstm ) approach for predictive modeling . the framework integrates
   multi source data , including climate variables , commodity availability ,
   and consumption patterns , which are processed through lstm to forecast the
   food insecurity composite score ( fisc ) as a proxy for food security
   performance . using data from north maluku , indonesia , the model was
   simulated under several scenarios to compare conventional logistics
   management with ai enhanced predictive logistics . results show that the
   lstm based model improves forecasting accuracy , reduces distribution errors
   , and highlights differences in model performance across provinces , with
   more stable predictions observed in southeast sulawesi and higher deviations
   in papua . these findings provide a strategic roadmap for implementing ai
   driven logistics systems in island regions , emphasizing their potential to
   enhance predictive capacity , strengthen food security , and build
   resilience against supply chain disruptions . 2025 the authors . this
   article is published by iieta and is licensed under the cc by 4.0 license .
DE food security; island regions; lstm; predictive logistics; smart food supply
   chain

---

UT 763
AR Massimo D, 2017, UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P373, DOI
   10.1145/3079628.3079640
TI Item contents good, user tags better: Empirical evaluation of a food
   recommender system
AU Massimo D; Elahi M; Ricci F; Ge M
TC 11
SO UMAP - PROC CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2017
AB traditional food recommender systems exploit items ratings and descriptions
   in order to generate relevant recommendations for the users . while this
   data is important , it might not entirely capture the true users preferences
   . in this paper , we analyze the performance of a food recommender that
   allows users to enter their preferences in the form of both ratings and tags
   , which are then used by a matrix factorization ( mf ) rating prediction
   model . the performed offline and online experiments have clarified the
   importance of user tags in comparison to content features . while item
   content contributes more to the quality of the prediction accuracy , user
   tags yields better ranking quality . even more importantly , a live user
   study has revealed that a system variant , which leverages user tags in the
   prediction model and in the interface , achieves a significantly better user
   evaluation in terms of perceived effectiveness , choice satisfaction and
   choice difficulty
ID factorization; recommender systems; empirical evaluations; matrix
   factorizations; online experiments; prediction accuracy; prediction model;
   system variants; traditional food; user evaluations; forecasting

---

UT 764
AR Xu Z/1, 2023, PROC - IEEE INT CONF HEAL INFORMATICS ICHI, P478, DOI
   10.1109/ICHI57859.2023.00072
TI ElCombo: Knowledge-based Personalized Meal Recommendation System for Chinese
   Community-dwelling Elders
AU Xu Z/1; Li J/7; Topaz M
TC 3
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF HEAL INFORMATICS ICHI
PY 2023
AB knowledge graph based food recommendations are critical for the nutritional
   support of older adults . however , the integration of disease based
   nutritional principles and preference related requirements needs to be
   optimized in current recommendation processes . this study aims to design a
   knowledge graph based personalized meal recommendation system for older
   adults . the preliminary results of simulated recommendations are reported
DE elder nutrition; knowledge graph; personalized food recommendation
ID graphic methods; knowledge graph; nutrition; current; elder nutrition;
   graph-based; knowledge based; knowledge graphs; older adults; personalized
   food recommendation; recommender systems

---

UT 765
AR Nagarkar G, 2025, INT CONF GENER COMPUT SYST INTELL SYST SUSTAIN DEV ICNGCS
   - CONF PROC, DOI 10.1109/ICNGCS64900.2025.11183285
TI Fusion of NLP and Nutritional Intelligence for Food Recommendation: A Three-
   Way Hybrid Model
AU Nagarkar G; Savyanavar A
TC 0
SO INT CONF GENER COMPUT SYST INTELL SYST SUSTAIN DEV ICNGCS - CONF PROC
PY 2025
AB gradually , food recommendation systems ( frs ) have evolved as tool to
   guide users in selecting various food choices . in spite of its growing
   importance , the frs struggles due to its strict input requirements ,
   inadequate context awareness , and lack of attention to dietary demands .
   the proposed hybrid model combines three different methods : cosine
   similarity and tf idf vectorisation with fuzzy string fallback ( using
   fuzzywuzzy ) , cuisine based filtering , and nutritional optimization based
   on euclidean distance that includes calories , fats , proteins , and
   carbohydrates . the user can select one of the three input of their choice
   and goal . the three inputs are : name of ingredient or recipe , variety of
   cuisines , and nutritional targets . the kaggle dataset is enriched with
   ingredients quantitatively , nutritional information , and categorical tags
   like healthy / unhealthy , vegetarian / non vegetarian , and diabetic safe /
   unsafe . the hybrid model demonstrates more than 90 % accuracy . this paper
   proposes a robust and user centric approach , sustainable for personalized
   food recommendations and dietary choices . also , the system features with
   detailed preparation instructions , nutritional breakdown , and an image of
   the recommended food . overall , the system offers selection of food as per
   personal requirement and diet
DE cosine similarity; euclidean distance; food recommendation system;
   fuzzywuzzy; tf-idf
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; food ingredients; nutrition; context-
   awareness; cosine similarity; euclidean distance; food recommendation
   system; fuzzywuzzy; hybrid model; nutritional information; optimizations;
   tf-idf; vectorization; recommender systems

---

UT 766
AR Aliasgari M, 2024, IEEE INT CONF E-HEALTH NETW APPL SERV HEAL, DOI
   10.1109/HEALTHCOM60970.2024.10880815
TI Recommending Healthy Food for Phenylketonuria with Collaborative and
   Content-Based Filtering
AU Aliasgari M; Li H/6; Zhang Y/9; Nejatbakhsh Y; Nejatbakhsh R
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF E-HEALTH NETW APPL SERV HEAL
PY 2024
AB phenylketonuria ( pku ) is a genetic disorder requiring strict dietary
   management to prevent intellectual disability . existing food recommendation
   systems struggle to address the unique needs of pku patients , often
   neglecting the importance of balanced nutrition alongside protein control .
   this paper proposes a novel , age based recommender system for pku patients
   . the system leverages ontologies to capture knowledge about pku related
   knowledge , foods , and nutrients , ensuring safe and personalized meal
   recommendations . it personalizes suggestions by considering a patient s pku
   diagnosis , protein tolerance level , and potentially their preferences .
   for infants , a rule based system ensures safe protein consumption and
   suggests suitable recipes . adults benefit from both content based and
   collaborative filtering techniques . this work has the potential to empower
   pku patients to effectively manage their dietary needs by providing safe ,
   personalized , and diverse meal recommendations
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; food recommender system;
   knowledge based filtering; phenylketonuria
ID collaborative based filtering; content-based filtering; dietary management;
   food recommender system; genetic disorders; healthy foods; intellectual
   disability; knowledge based; knowledge based filtering; phenylketonuria;
   collaborative filtering

---

UT 767
AR Chao W-Y, 2020, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12208 LNCS, P221, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-50249-2_17
TI Choice-Based User Interface Design of a Smart Healthy Food Recommender
   System for Nudging Eating Behavior of Older Adult Patients with Newly
   Diagnosed Type II Diabetes
AU Chao W-Y; Hass Z
TC 5
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB information retrieval ( ir ) and recommender system ( rs ) has its potential
   to assist patients to make an informed decision on healthy food and
   influence their food choices which inferring the chance of nudging dietary
   behavior . however , the potential users of the system , older adult
   patients , is a unique group of people with heterogeneity of the computer
   proficiency and the latency of technology acceptance . in this context , the
   effective user interface ( ui ) design of such a personal health decision
   support system for older adults remains undetermined . to fill in the
   research gap , a choice based ui of healthy food recommender system for
   older adults was proposed based on the literature review of ageing centered
   design principles . a further user testing study was conducted to
   systematically examine the effectiveness of the critical ui design variables
   , search result layouts and nutrition information formats , in a 2 2 full
   factorial experiment . fifteen older adults aged 60 years and older ( mean =
   66.8 ) were recruited to participate a scenario based evaluation of the
   proposed prototype system , another fifteen college students between the
   ages of 2035 ( mean = 28.6 ) were recruited as the control group of the
   study . the results are collected by both quantitative data of subjective
   questionnaires and qualitative data of the transcriptions from interview and
   think aloud notes . this article presented and discussed the results of
   older adults perceptions of the system collected by mixed methods in
   comparison to the student groups
DE gerontechnology; recommender system; ui/ux design
ID decision support systems; human computer interaction; medical computing;
   nutrition; search engines; students; surveys; user interfaces; full
   factorial experiment; informed decision; literature reviews; nutrition
   informations; quantitative data; scenario-based evaluation; technology
   acceptance; user interface designs; recommender systems

---

UT 768
AR Agarwal S, 2024, INT CONF DISRUPT TECHNOL ICDT, P519, DOI
   10.1109/ICDT61202.2024.10489453
TI A User Preference-Based Food Recommender System using Artificial
   Intelligence
AU Agarwal S; Uppal M; Gupta D; Juneja S; Kashyap R
TC 2
SO INT CONF DISRUPT TECHNOL ICDT
PY 2024
AB the world health organization has identified the growing prevalence of non
   communicable diseases , including premature cardiac diseases , cancer and
   diabetes , as a significant concern . a significant public health issue ,
   unhealthy eating habits have a significant impact on an individual s overall
   health . the development of systems that are able to suggest nutritious
   recipes that can effectively influence eating behavior is one potential
   approach to resolving this problem . this would make it easier for people to
   change their eating habits . this paper presents an extensive layout of the
   general structure of our feast idea framework . the cycle begins with the
   list of relatives , which is accordingly trailed by the assortment of
   individual food inclinations and variables relating to the season . one
   eminent trademark includes the joining of a remote helper into sound / show
   gadgets through the web of things , which further develops client situated
   menu suggestions and advance a feasting experience that is not difficult to
   explore and charming for the user
DE artificial intelligence; food recommender system; healthcare; internet of
   things; user preferences; virtual assistant
ID artificial intelligence; diseases; recommender systems; cardiac disease;
   eating habits; food recommende system; healthcare; non-communicable disease;
   preference-based; public health issues; user preferences; virtual
   assistants; world health organization; internet of things

---

UT 769
AR Vayadande K, 2024, PROC INT CONF UBIQUITOUS COMPUT INTELL SYST ICUIS, P514,
   DOI 10.1109/ICUIS64676.2024.10866719
TI Ryouri: The Recipe Recommendation System using Image Recognition
AU Vayadande K; Shende V; Shende R; Shete A; Shinde A; Solanke R
TC 3
SO PROC INT CONF UBIQUITOUS COMPUT INTELL SYST ICUIS
PY 2024
AB it is essential to have a balanced and healthy diet to meet our basic human
   needs . on average , indians consume about 2200 calories per person per day
   . most indians consume too little protein rich food . indians consume
   between 200-300 calories per day from foods that are harmful such as junk
   food . with today s people s lifestyle , people find it challenging to
   prepare their own meals , leading to a reliance on fast food . this often
   results in inadequate consumption of essential nutrients and an overreliance
   on harmful junk food . to address this issue , a recipe recommendation
   system called ryouri has been proposed . this system aims to make cooking
   more accessible to everyone . ryouri works by allowing users to upload
   images of their available ingredients to the website . subsequently , a list
   of recipes utilizing these ingredients is provided , enabling users to cook
   delicious and healthy meals easily . by simplifying the cooking process and
   offering tailored recipe suggestions , ryouri seeks to promote healthier
   eating habits and reduce dependence on fast food . incorporating such
   systems can empower individuals to take control of their diet and improve
   their overall health . rather than struggling to decide what to cook or
   resorting to unhealthy options , ryouri offers a practical solution for
   everyday cooking dilemmas . this approach can potentially revolutionize the
   way people approach meal preparation , encouraging a shift toward healthier
   food choices
DE content-based and collaborative filtering; hybrid recommendation; knn;
   machine learning in culinary applications; object detection; recipe
   recommendation; web development
ID content-based; content-based and collaborative filtering; hybrid
   recommendation; junk foods; knn; machine learning in culinary application;
   machine learning; objects detection; recipe recommendation; web development;
   food ingredients

---

UT 770
AR Bundasak S, 2017, INT ELECTR ENG CONGR IEECON, DOI
   10.1109/IEECON.2017.8075820
TI A healthy food recommendation system by combining clustering technology with
   the Weighted slope one Predictor
AU Bundasak S
TC 9
SO INT ELECTR ENG CONGR IEECON
PY 2017
AB the recommendation selected data from hundreds of entries to get reliable
   and accurate information that is just learning to predict unknown
   information . weighted slope one which is optimized to work execution and
   dynamic that create appropriate recommendations and get a satisfied answer
   by improving screening metric information and using it to predict user group
   and item . we improve recommendation systems by combining clustering
   technology with the weighted slope one predictor into a hybrid food
   recommender system with reduced data and lower error rate . this technique
   can also be applied to other systems that use satisfaction ratings
DE clustering; collaborativefiltering component; hybrid recommender systems;
   weighted slope one
ID electrical engineering; mathematical techniques; clustering; clustering
   technologies; collaborativefiltering component; healthy foods; hybrid
   recommender systems; metric information; reduced data; slope ones;
   recommender systems

---

UT 771
AR Huang S/1, 2024, SYMMETRY, V16, DOI 10.3390/sym16121698
TI A Hybrid Food Recommendation System Based on MOEA/D Focusing on the Problem
   of Food Nutritional Balance and Symmetry
AU Huang S/1; Wang C/3; Bian W
TC 5
SO SYMMETRY
PY 2024
AB with the improvement of people s living standards , the issue of dietary
   health has received extensive attention . in order to simultaneously meet
   people s demands for dietary preferences and nutritional balance , we have
   conducted research on the issue of personalized food recommendations . for
   this purpose , we have proposed a hybrid food recommendation model , which
   can provide users with scientific , reasonable , and personalized dietary
   advice . firstly , the collaborative filtering ( cf ) algorithm is adopted
   to recommend foods to users . then , the improved multi objective
   evolutionary algorithm based on decomposition ( moea / d ) is used to adjust
   the nutritional balance and symmetry of the recommended foods . in view of
   the existing problems in the current nutritional balance algorithm , such as
   slow convergence speed and insufficient local search ability , the
   autonomous optimization ( ao ) adjustment strategy , the self adaptive
   adjustment strategy , and the two sided mirror principle to optimize
   boundary strategy are introduced in the moea / d . according to the
   characteristics of the food nutrition regulation problem , an adaptive food
   regulation ( afr ) adjustment strategy is designed to achieve more accurate
   nutritional regulation . based on the above improvements , a food
   nutritional recommendation algorithm based on moea / d ( fnr moea / d ) is
   proposed . experiments show that compared with mopso , moabc , and rvea ,
   fnr moea / d performs more superiorly in solving the problem of nutritional
   balance in food recommendation
DE balanced nutritional regulation; cf algorithm; food recommendation; moea/d;
   multi-objective optimization

---

UT 772
AR Freund A, 2023, STUD AGRIC ECON, V125, P154, DOI 10.7896/j.2498
TI Effects of digitalisation on food safety
AU Freund A
TC 8
SO STUD AGRIC ECON
PY 2023
AB this paper reviews food safety within the agri food supply chain ( afsc )
   literature and presents a comprehensive framework for understanding how
   digitalisation has reshaped food safety practices within the afsc . its
   significant contribution lies in its identification of novel research
   streams in food safety that are underpinned by digitalisation techniques , a
   focus that can be expected to benefit both academic researchers and
   practitioners who are seeking solutions to pressing challenges related to
   the efficient achievement of food safety goals . in this paper , the
   powerful bibliometric analysis capabilities of biblioshiny and vosviewer
   were utilized to conduct a comprehensive review of the relevant literature .
   biblioshiny s strengths in data visualization and network analysis were
   instrumental in identifying key trends and patterns in the research , while
   vosviewer s ability to create insightful maps of collaboration networks
   provided valuable insights into the relationships between researchers and
   institutions . the evolution of the published reviews from the past 10 years
   and the trending afsc articles were thus revealed . the used databases were
   web of science and scopus . based on bibliometric coupling , the identified
   seven underlying research streams are ( a ) traceability challenges in afsc
   , ( b ) quality management in afsc , ( c ) agri food 4.0 , ( d ) future
   trends of afsc , ( e ) impact of the blockchain , ( f ) smart packaging ,
   and ( g ) circular economy . results show that besides contributing to the
   efficiency and profitability of companies , digital developments also help
   to promote sustainable practices and mitigate environmental impacts , while
   ensuring traceability , proactive risk management and incident prevention .
   2023 , naik research institute of agricultural economics
DE agri-food supply chain; bibliometric review; digitalisation; food safety

---

UT 773
AR Qiao G, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V156, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104877
TI Food recommendation towards personalized wellbeing
AU Qiao G; Zhang D/4; Zhang N; Shen X/2; Jiao X; Lu W; Fan D; Zhao J/3; Zhang
   H/3; Chen W; Zhu J
TC 15
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : the intersection of nutrition and technology gave birth to the
   research of food recommendation system ( frs ) , which marked the
   transformation of traditional diet to a more personalized and healthy
   direction . the frs uses advanced data analysis and machine learning
   technology to provide customized dietary advice according to users personal
   preferences , and nutritional needs , which plays a vital role in promoting
   public health and reducing disease risks . scope and approach : this review
   presents the architecture of frs and deeply discusses various recommendation
   algorithms , including the content based method , collaborative filtering
   method , knowledge graph based method , and hybrid methods . the review
   further introduces existing data resources and evaluation metrics , and
   highlights key technologies in user profiling and food analysis . in
   addition , the wide application of personalized frs is summarized , and the
   importance of these systems in satisfying users dietary preferences and
   maintaining balanced nutrition is emphasized . finally , the key challenges
   and development trends of frs are deeply analyzed from data level , model
   level and user experience level . key findings and conclusions :
   personalized frs shows great potential in helping users make healthier
   dietary decisions . although there are still many challenges , such as
   dealing with heterogeneous data and interpretability . but with the progress
   of technology , there will be broader development in the future . for
   example , the powerful data processing ability of deep learning will
   effectively improve the accuracy of the system . in addition , the
   application of interactive recommendation system and large language model
   will also provide strong support for satisfying user experience and
   improving acceptance
DE food recommendation system; machine learning; personalized diet; precision
   nutrition; recommendation algorithm
ID food recommendation system; machine learning technology; machine learning;
   personal preferences; personalized diet; precision nutrition; recommendation
   algorithms; system use; users experiences; well being

---

UT 774
AR Roy D, 2022, PROD OPER MANAG, V31, P3687, DOI 10.1111/poms.13809
TI Restaurant analytics: Emerging practice and research opportunities
AU Roy D; Spiliotopoulou E; de Vries J
TC 25
SO PROD OPER MANAG
PY 2022
AB smart technologies and increased data availability enable restaurateurs to
   gather more information about customers and their behavior . these data can
   be combined with data from other sources to make a wide range of strategic
   and operational restaurant decisions , and can therefore generate tremendous
   value for restaurants and their customers . this study focuses on discussing
   the most promising research opportunities in restaurant operations that
   leverage data analytics . in particular , we focus on specific research
   questions across restaurant decision domains such as location , reservation
   and table management , queue management , menu design and engineering , and
   multichannel order management . for each research question , we motivate its
   practical and theoretical relevance , identify data sources , propose a
   methodological approach for analysis , and discuss actionable insights for
   practitioners . as a result , this paper aims to highlight data analytics
   opportunities for restaurateurs and inspire researchers to contribute in
   this domain
DE big data; business analytics; data-driven decisions; data-driven
   optimization; restaurant operations; service operations

---

UT 775
AR Rita L, 2024, MACH LEARN KNOWL EXTR, V6, P2738, DOI 10.3390/make6040131
TI Optimizing Ingredient Substitution Using Large Language Models to Enhance
   Phytochemical Content in Recipes
AU Rita L; Southern J; Laponogov I; Higgins K; Veselkov K
TC 8
SO MACH LEARN KNOWL EXTR
PY 2024
AB in the emerging field of computational gastronomy , aligning culinary
   practices with scientifically supported nutritional goals is increasingly
   important . this study explores how large language models ( llms ) can be
   applied to optimize ingredient substitutions in recipes , specifically to
   enhance the phytochemical content of meals . phytochemicals are bioactive
   compounds found in plants , which , based on preclinical studies , may offer
   potential health benefits . we fine tuned models , including openai s gpt
   3.5-turbo , davinci 002 , and meta s tinyllama 1.1b , using an ingredient
   substitution dataset . these models were used to predict substitutions that
   enhance the phytochemical content and to create a corresponding enriched
   recipe dataset . our approach improved the top ingredient prediction
   accuracy on substitution tasks , from the baseline 34.53 0.10 % to 38.03
   0.28 % on the original substitution dataset and from 40.24 0.36 % to 54.46
   0.29 % on a refined version of the same dataset . these substitutions led to
   the creation of 1951 phytochemically enriched ingredient pairings and 1639
   unique recipes . while this approach demonstrates potential in optimizing
   ingredient substitutions , caution must be taken when drawing conclusions
   about health benefits , as the claims are based on preclinical evidence .
   this research represents a step forward in using ai to promote healthier
   eating practices , providing potential pathways for integrating
   computational methods with nutritional science
DE ingredient substitution; large language models; nutritional optimization

---

UT 776
AR Trattner C, 2017, UMAP - ADJUN PUBL CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P59, DOI
   10.1145/3099023.3099072
TI On the relations between cooking interests, hobbies and nutritional values
   of online recipes implications for health-aware recipe recommender systems
AU Trattner C; Rokicki M; Herder E
TC 14
SO UMAP - ADJUN PUBL CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2017
AB in this paper , we investigate differences between recipes uploaded by users
   and recipes bookmarked by users . the results indicate that uploaded recipes
   outperform bookmarked recipes in terms of healthiness . further , health
   scores and nutritional values of these recipes are highly related to the
   stated cooking interests : for example , southern food lovers do not eat as
   healthy as those who prefer the mediterranean or middle eastern cuisine . a
   disturbing finding is that interest in the category kids is associated with
   bad values for all nutritional measures . we also found some interactions
   between hobbies such as biking , hunting or knitting and nutritional values
   . these insights pave way to the design of health aware recipe recommender
   systems that take a user s food preferences into account . in addition ,
   taking a user s lifestyle and hobbies into account would provide valuable
   input to persuasive systems
DE cooking interests; food preferences; hobbies; nutrition; online recipes
ID health; nutrition; online systems; recommender systems; thermal processing (
   foods ); food preference; health scores; hobbies; nutritional value; online
   recipes; cooking

---

UT 777
AR Ahmadian S, 2026, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V85, DOI 10.1007/s11042-026-21677-w
TI The impact of deep data representation fusion on food recommender systems: a
   comparative study
AU Ahmadian S; Rostami M/1; Ahmadian M; Oussalah M
TC 0
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2026
AB given the vast array of food options available , food recommender systems
   play a crucial role in assisting users in discovering desired foods by
   analyzing their past preferences , represented as interactions between users
   and food items . to mitigate challenges stemming from data sparsity and cold
   start problems , these systems incorporate supplementary data resources in
   conjunction with rating data to enhance the accuracy of their
   recommendations . furthermore , deep learning models offer a means to
   extract latent features from input data resources , thereby enhancing the
   accuracy of the recommendation process . nevertheless , the performance of
   food recommender systems is intricately linked to the judicious selection
   and fusion of data resources . previous research has overlooked this
   critical aspect in the design of food recommender systems . to address this
   challenge , this paper undertakes a comparative analysis of various data
   resources applicable to food recommender systems . we delve into the impact
   of leveraging deep neural networks to obtain deep representations of these
   data resources , as well as their fusion techniques , on the efficacy of
   food recommendations . moreover , we comprehensively investigate the
   efficacy of various deep data representation fusion models in mitigating the
   challenges posed by data sparsity and cold start problems . to this end , we
   design extensive experiments utilizing two widely recognized food datasets .
   the findings indicate that the integration of additional data resources does
   not consistently improve recommendation accuracy . also , varying
   combinations of these resources exert differential impacts on the
   performance of food recommender systems
DE cold start; data fusion; data sparsity; deep neural network; food
   recommender system
ID data accuracy; data fusion; data mining; recommender systems; cold start
   problems; cold start; comparatives studies; data representations; data
   resources; data sparsity; food recommender system; neural networks;
   performance; supplementary data; deep neural networks

---

UT 778
AR Rastogi N, 2020, CEUR WORK PROC, V2721, P306
TI Applying learning and semantics for personalized food recommendations?
AU Rastogi N; Seneviratne O; Chen Y/2; Harris J; Li D; Subburathinam A; Jian R;
   Goulet M; Zhou Y/6; Minhas O; Okun J; Hill A; Chen C-H; Gruen D
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2020
AB we demonstrate the use of a health coach platform that recommends
   personalized selections of food recipes to diabetic patients . on our
   platform , we implement a question answering service that allows questions
   such as ' suggest a good breakfast ' to be queried . a response with a list
   of recipes that is applicable to the patient vis a vis their health
   condition and food preferences is generated . our research is intended to
   support the personalization and explainability of recommended food options
   using a novel application of guideline recommendations encoded in a semantic
   format . our platform includes a repository of over half a million recipes
   and their nutritional content , where each recipe is also represented as a
   vector based embedding that has been derived from the recipe s ingredient
   list and preparation instructions [ 4 ] . 2020 ceur ws
DE diabetes; explainability; food recommendation; personalization
ID industrial management; diabetic patient; food preference; health condition;
   novel applications; personalizations; question answering services; semantic
   web

---

UT 779
AR Xu W/1, 2017, PROC - INT CONF ADV CLOUD BIG DATA CBD, P123, DOI
   10.1109/CBD.2017.29
TI A Feature-Based Food Recommendation on Apache Spark
AU Xu W/1; Li Y/9; Wei L; Wu Z
TC 3
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV CLOUD BIG DATA CBD
PY 2017
AB with the improvement of living standards , people s demand for the quality
   of food is increasing . to provide a precise and efficient recommendation in
   this field , this paper proposes a parallel method based on food features on
   apache spark . this method finds similar users based on user evaluation on
   food expanded with food features , and products top n recommendations for
   the target user . we evaluate our approach by the data crawled from
   meishichina . com . the results show that this method can improve the
   accuracy and the parallelized calculation can greatly reduce the running
   time by adding work nodes into the cluster
DE apache spark; collaborative filtering; food recommendation system; parallel
   processing
ID collaborative filtering; feature-based; living standards; parallel method;
   parallel processing; running time; user evaluations; big data

---

UT 780
AR Singh PK, 2025, PROCESS INTEGR OPTIM SUSTAIN, V9, P1053, DOI
   10.1007/s41660-025-00495-x
TI Analyzing the Characteristics of Agri-Food 4.0 Acting as Stimuli to
   Sustainable Agriculture Supply Chain: A Fuzzy VIKOR Approach
AU Singh PK; Singh AK
TC 4
SO PROCESS INTEGR OPTIM SUSTAIN
PY 2025
AB the concept of agri food 4.0 is continuously getting the attention of
   researchers across the globe . this concept is an analogy of ' industry 4.0
   . ' the term ' agri food 4.0 , ' also known as ' agriculture 4.0 , '
   indicates the fourth revolution of the agriculture industry which is majorly
   driven by current technologies such as the internet of things ( iot ) , big
   data analytics ( bda ) , artificial intelligence / machine learning ( ai /
   ml ) , and blockchain technology . these technologies constitute the
   characteristics of agri food 4.0. in this study , these characteristics of
   agri food 4.0 are analyzed against 10 different essential criteria of a
   sustainable supply chain to identify the potential of each characteristic in
   stimulating the sustainability of the agriculture supply chain . the supply
   chain criteria used in this study are extracted from the literature through
   an extensive literature survey . a fuzzy based multi criteria decision
   approach , known as fuzzy vikor , has been used in consultation with supply
   chain experts for analyzing the characteristics of agri food 4.0. results
   show that ai / ml is the most crucial characteristic of agri food 4.0 which
   can play a key role in achieving the sustainability in agriculture supply
   chain . bda also shows promising signs and can ensure better adaptability of
   sustainable practices in the supply chain of agricultural goods
DE agri-food 40; big data analytics; fuzzy vikor; iot; sustainable supply chain
ID agri-food; sustainable agriculture; agri-food 40; agriculture industries;
   big data analytic; blockchain; current technology; data analytics; fuzzy
   vikor; machine learning; sustainable agriculture; sustainable supply chains;
   agribusiness

---

UT 781
AR Sinyabe EP, 2023, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P407, DOI 10.1145/3623809.3623942
TI Towards Food Recommender Systems Considering the African Context
AU Sinyabe EP; Kamla CV; Tchappi I; Marzouk A; Najjar A
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2023
AB food recommender systems ( frs ) provides suggestions of recipes to human
   users . these systems are more and more spreading like in eu and us .
   however in sub saharan africa , the application of these systems is less
   explored . this paper aims to she would light on the challenges faced by
   food recommender systems when applied in sub saharan africa . by identifying
   these limitations , we can pave the way for more inclusive and culturally
   sensitive human computer interaction designs
DE chronic diseases; deep learning; food recommendation; human-agent
   interaction; recommender system
ID deep learning; human computer interaction; chronic disease; deep learning;
   food recommendation; human users; human-agent interaction; human computer
   interaction designs; sub-saharan africa; recommender systems

---

UT 782
AR Cajavilca-Neyra C, 2024, PROC - INT ENG SCI TECHNOL CONF IESTEC, P524, DOI
   10.1109/IESTEC62784.2024.10820246
TI Lean Supply Chain Management and agri-food 4.0 model: The case of peruvian
   coffee supply chain
AU Cajavilca-Neyra C; Tocto-Guerrero L; Ramos E; Coles P
TC 0
SO PROC - INT ENG SCI TECHNOL CONF IESTEC
PY 2024
AB the agri food supply chain faces the challenge of increasing its flow of raw
   materials by 70 % to satisfy demand by 2050 . the supply chain of the coffee
   industry presents deficiencies in its activities and processes , and as it
   is the second most marketed in the world , it is of great importance to
   analyze the performance of your supply chain in the phases it goes through .
   this study seeks to analyze the processes directly affecting the operational
   performance of coffee farms . we integrate lean supply chain management with
   industry 4.0 tools and improve the operating performance by 17 % . finally ,
   significant improvements have been demonstrated in the reduction of waste
   and the optimization of the agri food supply chain
DE agri-food 40; coffee; industry 40; lean supply chain; value stream mapping
ID agribusiness; coffee; food industry; % reductions; agri-food 40; agri-food
   supply chains; chain management; lean supply chains; operating performance;
   operational performance; optimizations; performance; value stream mapping;
   agri-food

---

UT 783
AR Zeb A/1, 2021, FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS, V127, P360, DOI
   10.1016/j.fbp.2021.02.005
TI Data harmonisation as a key to enable digitalisation of the food sector: A
   review
AU Zeb A/1; Soininen J-P; Sozer N
TC 42
SO FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS
PY 2021
AB the food sector is driven by a large number of actors , including primary
   producers , manufacturers , logistics providers , retailers , and consumers
   . at each phase of the food value chain , a significant amount of data is
   generated that provides important information to the agents involved in
   processing and flow of food products from farm to fork . proper handling of
   food data has a crucial role in providing safe , quality and affordable
   products to the increasing world population . the independent production of
   food data , without following any specific guidelines and procedures , often
   results in inconsistent and incomparable datasets that can not be directly
   utilized by multiple users . data harmonization means reconciling various
   types , levels and sources of data in formats that are compatible and
   comparable , and thus useful for better decision making . in the food sector
   , one way of performing data harmonization is to represent food data
   according to reliable classification and description systems . another
   approach toward harmonization is to match various food concepts to the
   existing and widely used ontologies . furthermore , harmonization is
   facilitated by following specific guidelines and procedures during data
   collection processes . this study explores some of the most important tools
   , frameworks and methodologies for data harmonization in the food sector .
   2021 the author ( s ) . published by elsevier b.v . on behalf of institution
   of chemical engineers .
DE data harmonization; food ontology; food sector; harmonization challenges
ID classification ( of information ); data handling; food chemistry; food
   industry; food products; ontology; population statistics; data
   harmonization; food ontology; food sector; harmonization; harmonization
   challenge; independent productions; logistics providers; primary producers;
   value chains; world population; decision making

---

UT 784
AR Hao Z, 2023, J WEB SEMANT, V78, DOI 10.1016/j.websem.2023.100798
TI Ontology alignment with semantic and structural embeddings
AU Hao Z; Mayer W; Xia J; Li G; Qin L; Feng Z
TC 26
SO J WEB SEMANT
PY 2023
AB ontology alignment is essential for data integration and interoperability
   across multiple applications across diverse disciplines . in recent decades
   , significant advancements have been made in the development of advanced
   methods and systems for ontology alignment . empirical results have
   suggested that ontological semantics can be effectively employed to enhance
   the alignment process . besides , structural information is crucial for
   ontology alignment as it reflects the relations among adjacent concepts in
   the ontology . previous works are mainly based on external lexicon and
   predefined rules based on ontological structure . recently , deep learning
   has imposed positive impacts on ontology alignment and obtained substantial
   improvement . this paper proposes a new method based on ontology embedding
   incorporating the semantic and structural features . it utilizes the
   distance between the embedding of two ontological concepts to be aligned as
   the criterion for alignment . the proposed method is used to align two
   widely used food ontologies and three chinese food classification ontologies
   . the experimental results show that our method enhances the performance
   compared to several state of the art alignment systems , demonstrating the
   importance of learning semantic representation and structural representation
   . furthermore , the proposed method is evaluated on several different tracks
   of the ontology alignment evaluation initiative ( oaei ) , and experimental
   results show that our method outperforms other baselines in effectiveness .
   the data and code can be obtained from : 2023 elsevier b . v .
DE ontology alignment; representation learning; semantic embedding; structural
   embedding
ID data integration; deep learning; embeddings; semantics; embeddings; multiple
   applications; ontological structures; ontology alignment; ontologys;
   representation learning; rule based; semantic embedding; structural
   embedding; structural information; ontology

---

UT 785
AR Ohata T, 2019, CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT, P17, DOI
   10.1145/3326458.3326926
TI Foods recommendation system for meals-out in nutrient balance
AU Ohata T; Nishihara Y; Yamanishi R
TC 2
SO CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT
PY 2019
AB having foods in a fine nutritional balance is important for both physical
   and mental health . due to the change in lifestyle , people often have lunch
   and dinner at restaurants and buy pre cooked foods at supermarkets . having
   only those foods might cause offbalance of nutrition . this paper proposes a
   food recommendation system for meals out to support the nutrient balance .
   the users may input the foods that they have had . the proposed system
   calculates the intake of nutrients and energies , and then recommends foods
   for meals out that support to adjust the nutrient balance . we conducted
   evaluation experiments with the proposed system . it was confirmed that the
   proposed system could support users to improve the balance of nutrient
   intake
DE food logs; food recommendation; health care; support for nutrient balance
ID nutrients; nutrition; cooked food; energy; evaluation experiments; food log;
   food recommendation; mental health; nutrient balance; nutritional balance;
   physical health; support for nutrient balance; recommender systems

---

UT 786
AR Al-Razgan M, 2021, MATH PROBL ENG, V2021, DOI 10.1155/2021/3627715
TI Exploring the Food Pairing Hypothesis in Saudi Cuisine Using Genetic
   Algorithm
AU Al-Razgan M; Tallab S; Alfakih T
TC 8
SO MATH PROBL ENG
PY 2021
AB computational gastronomy has emerged as one of the recent hot research
   topics in the field of food science . it is a field that studies food in the
   era of data . one of the current research topics in this field is the food
   pairing hypothesis , which states that food with common flavor compounds
   tastes good when consumed together . the hypothesis has been studied in
   western and european gastronomic societies . however , there are no reported
   studies conducted in arab counterparts . in this study , we used genetic
   algorithms ( gas ) to validate this hypothesis in saudi cuisine . we
   developed a quantitative model and applied it to a dataset consisting of
   ingredients compounds found in saudi cuisine recipes . our research revealed
   that the pattern of ingredients occurring in saudi dishes showed positive
   food pairing results like western cuisine . moreover , our research directs
   the light to new dimensions where ga can be applied to explore the field of
   food science and computational gastronomy
ID flavor compounds; current; food science; hot research topics; new
   dimensions; quantitative models; genetic algorithms

---

UT 787
AR Lee J/3, 2020, IEEE CONSUM ELECTRON MAG, V9, P79, DOI
   10.1109/MCE.2020.2986812
TI Juice recipe recommendation system using machine learning in MEC environment
AU Lee J/3; Lee J/4
TC 13
SO IEEE CONSUM ELECTRON MAG
PY 2020
AB the combination of machine learning with healthcare services is emerging .
   however , when machine learning functions are executed on resource
   constrained mobile consumer devices , the computing overhead will increase ,
   and the user experience will deteriorate . in essence , the existing
   approaches delegate such tasks to a central cloud data center . however ,
   data processing on remote cloud servers results in a long response latency .
   therefore , this article proposes a machine learning based smart recipe
   recommendation system that uses a local mobile edge computing server . the
   proposed system delegates the machine learning and recipe search tasks to
   the mobile edge computing server , thereby reducing the response latency for
   data processing and the computational burden placed on mobile user devices .
   2020 ieee
ID data handling; edge computing; machine learning; search engines; turing
   machines; user experience; cloud data centers; cloud servers; computational
   burden; healthcare services; mobile consumer devices; mobile users; search
   tasks; recommender systems

---

UT 788
AR Najah AM, 2025, ICADEIS - INT CONF ADV DATA SCI E-LEARNING SYST INTEGR DATA
   SCI SYST PROCEEDING, DOI 10.1109/ICADEIS65852.2025.10932998
TI Ontology-Based Low Glycemic Index Menu Recommender System for Patients with
   Diabetes
AU Najah AM; Baizal ZKA
TC 1
SO ICADEIS - INT CONF ADV DATA SCI E-LEARNING SYST INTEGR DATA SCI SYST
   PROCEEDING
PY 2025
AB diabetes is a growing chronic health issue driven by lifestyle changes ,
   urbanization , and poor dietary habits . managing diabetes requires not only
   medical intervention but also significant lifestyle adjustments ,
   particularly through a healthy and balanced diet . however , existing menu
   recom mender systems often fail to consider the importance of a low glycemic
   index ( gi ) in meal planning , and they typically lack detailed information
   such as ingredients , recipes , and nutritional facts . this study seeks to
   address these shortcomings by developing an ontology based menu recommender
   system using the ontology web language ( owl ) to improve dietary adherence
   and reduce complications associated with diabetes through personalized low
   glycemic index menu recommendations . by modeling food data with owl , the
   system organizes information about food items , glycemic index values , and
   nu tritional properties to generate personalized recommendations .
   evaluation metrics showed a precision of 0.767 , recall of 1.0 , accuracy of
   0.767 , and an fl score of 0.869 , demonstrating the system s effectiveness
   in recommending low gi foods . these results indicate the system s potential
   in supporting diabetes management by improving dietary adherence and
   reducing complications
DE food recommender system; glycemic index; ontology; ontology web language;
   recommender system
ID ontology; balanced diet; food recommender system; glycemic index; health
   issues; healthy diet; low glycaemic-index; medical intervention; ontology
   web language; ontologys; ontology-based; food ingredients

---

UT 789
AR Adrian WT, 2024, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1948 CCIS, P262, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-50485-3_28
TI Food Ontologies and Ontological Reasoning in Food Domain for Sustainability
AU Adrian WT; Pyrczak K; Kluza K; Ligęza A
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2024
AB this paper investigates the potential of combining food ontologies and ai in
   the food sector for enhanced sustainability . we argue that ontology driven
   ai can foster sustainable food systems , underscoring how semantic
   structures and ai can facilitate precision agriculture , sustainable food
   choices , personalized diets , and climate change mitigation . our goal is
   to discuss how these innovative technologies can be harnessed to better
   understand , manage , and ultimately transform the food domain for a
   sustainable future . as a first step toward achieving this goal , we provide
   an overview of prominent food ontologies and knowledge graphs such as foodon
   , food kg , spo , ingredients ontology , and ons , highlighting their
   structures and focal points , as well as illustrate the value of ontological
   reasoning through practical food domain examples , using sparql queries and
   ontological reasoning for insightful knowledge derivation
DE food ontologies; ontological reasoning in food systems; sustainability in
   food systems
ID climate change; knowledge graph; nutrition; ontology; semantics; food
   ontology; food sector; food system; ontological reasoning; ontological
   reasoning in food system; ontology reasonings; ontologys; semantic
   structures; sustainability in food system; sustainable development

---

UT 790
AR Song Y/3, 2023, JISUANJI FUZHU SHEJI YU TUXINGXUE XUEBAO, V35, P413, DOI
   10.3724/SP.J.1089.2023.19347
TI A Cross-Modal Multi-View Self-Supervised Heterogeneous Graph Network for
   Personalized Food Recommendation; [跨模态多视角自监督的个性化食谱推荐异构图网络]
AU Song Y/3; Yang X/1; Xu C/1
TC 3
SO JISUANJI FUZHU SHEJI YU TUXINGXUE XUEBAO
PY 2023
AB to better model the association between different content information of
   recipes , we propose a cross modal multi view self supervised heterogeneous
   graph network for personalized food recommendation . firstly , we
   incorporate users , recipes and ingredients into a heterogeneous graph and
   model the complex hierarchical relationship between them based on message
   passing . secondly , to better model the association between multi modal
   information of food and promote the interaction between different modal
   information , we utilize the association of three kinds of food information
   , recipe nodes , ingredient nodes and recipe images to construct the cross
   modal multi view self supervised learning task . thirdly , the multi modal
   features of recipes are integrated by the attention module guided by the
   user representation to obtain the comprehensive recipe representation .
   finally , the food recommendation task is completed by measuring the
   similarity of the user representation and the comprehensive recipe
   representation . experimental results on a large scale food recommendation
   dataset show that the proposed method outperforms the optimal baseline
   method hafr over auc , ndcg@10 and recall@10 by 6.35 % , 8.13 % and 11.7 % ,
   respectively , which verifies the effectiveness of our method . 2023
   institute of computing technology
DE cross-modal; food recommendation; heterogeneous graph; multi-view; self-
   supervised learning
ID graph neural networks; large dataset; message passing; supervised learning;
   content information; cross-modal; food recommendation; graph networks;
   heterogeneous graph; heterogeneous modeling; message passing; multi-modal
   information; multi-views; self-supervised learning; association reactions

---

UT 791
AR Mokdara T, 2018, PROCEEDING ICT INT STUD PROJ CONF ICT-ISPC, DOI
   10.1109/ICT-ISPC.2018.8523950
TI Personalized Food Recommendation Using Deep Neural Network
AU Mokdara T; Pusawiro P; Harnsomburana J
TC 32
SO PROCEEDING ICT INT STUD PROJ CONF ICT-ISPC
PY 2018
AB { making decision about what and where to eat is a major problem in our
   everyday lives due to a wide variety of ingredients , culinary styles ,
   ethnicities , cultures , and personal tastes . choosing right dish at the
   right time seems to be a very difficult task . thus , this research proposes
   an integration of a deep neural network with a recommendation system with
   thai food as our test domain . the proposed model extracts interested
   ingredients from the set of recipes of user s favorite dishes that is given
   before using the system . the features are extracted from the analysis of
   favorite ingredients then a user profile is evaluated by a model of deep
   neural network ( dnn ) . the system also collects history of selected dishes
   along with user profile in a database . the model will predict the next
   dishes using a temporal prediction model on the profile and eating history .
   the satisfaction is analyzed through experiment based on whether user
   selected the recommended dishes or not which is calculated as hit ratio . in
   addition , the accuracy and variety of recommendation are also analyzed .
   from the experimental results , dnn model can predict the user profile with
   precision up to 90 % and the accuracy of hit ratio is up to 89 %
DE deep learning; food; food classification; food recommendation;
   personalization
ID deep learning; food products; forecasting; hit ratio; making decision;
   personalizations; temporal prediction; user profile; deep neural networks

---

UT 792
AR Jansen LZH, 2025, INT J MANAG DATA INSIGHTS, V5, DOI
   10.1016/j.jjimei.2024.100303
TI A machine learning algorithm for personalized healthy and sustainable
   grocery product recommendations
AU Jansen LZH; Bennin KE/1
TC 9
SO INT J MANAG DATA INSIGHTS
PY 2025
AB nowadays , retailers try to optimize the shopping experience for consumers
   by offering personalized services . recommending food options , i . e .
   providing consumers suggestions on what products to buy , is one of such
   services . food recommender systems for grocery shopping are typically
   preference based , using consumers shopping history to determine what
   products they would like . these systems can predict well what a consumer
   would potentially like to buy , however , they do not stimulate consumers to
   buy healthier or more sustainable food options . in response to increasing
   global concerns about public health and sustainability , this paper aims to
   integrate healthiness and sustainability levels of food options in
   recommender systems to encourage consumers to buy better food options . to
   assess the impact of integrating healthiness and sustainability information
   of food choices in predicting an item to buy , we employ three food
   recommendation models : a baseline popularity based model , restricted
   boltzmann machine ( rbm ) , and variational bayesian context aware
   representation ( vbcar ) based on ( 1 ) preferences , ( 2 ) preferences and
   health , ( 3 ) preferences and sustainability , and ( 4 ) all combined
   attributes . models were trained and tested using two different datasets :
   instacart and a dutch supermarket dataset . the experimental results
   indicate improved performance for vbcar compared to baseline and rbm .
   models that emphasize healthiness and / or sustainability of food choices do
   not significantly alter model performance compared to preference based
   models . the results of the health and sustainability based recommender
   systems demonstrate the potential of recommender systems to assist people in
   finding healthier and more sustainable products that are also suited to
   their preferences
DE food recommender system; groceries; healthiness; product suggestions;
   sustainability

---

UT 793
AR Jain A/2, 2022, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V356, P153, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-16-7952-0_15
TI Personalized Food Recommendation—State of Art and Review
AU Jain A/2; Singhal A/1
TC 6
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2022
AB in the present scenario , people are becoming more health conscious . there
   are various factors like age , gender , and genetic history on which diet
   matters . the internet is flooded with a tremendous amount of information
   and data related to healthcare . an enormous amount of data related to
   medical and diet on websites makes it difficult for the user to find the
   correct and valuable information , and it is a high demand of society . this
   problem of finding the proper diet plan needs a recommender system in
   healthcare is required . the recommender system helps end users and medical
   professionals to see the results in a better manner . as the number of
   available food items increases exponentially , it is impossible to take all
   of them . in such a scenario , a recommendation system is required to
   consider user preferences , maximize the number of healthy compounds , and
   minimize the unhealthy ones in food . the proposed paper has collectively
   studied , reviewed , categorized , and summarized different techniques and
   algorithms to suggest the diet plan and identify the issues and gaps in
   existing algorithms and food / diet recommendation strategies . the review
   includes basic categories like a recommendation based on user preferences
   for item features , based on user behavior , hybrid filtering ( h.f.  ) ,
   and knowledge based filtering ( kbf ) . additional state of art for existing
   food recommendations is analyzed in this paper
DE diet recommendation; food recommendation; healthcare recommendation;
   recommendation system

---

UT 794
AR Kumar A/5, 2016, PROC INDIACOM; INT CONF COMPUT SUSTAIN GLOB DEV INDIACOM,
   P3592
TI Survey and evaluation of food recommendation systems and techniques
AU Kumar A/5; Tanwar P; Nigam S
TC 18
SO PROC INDIACOM; INT CONF COMPUT SUSTAIN GLOB DEV INDIACOM
PY 2016
AB recommending proper food is of paramount importance for person s sound
   health . it is also useful in revenue generation in restaurants by
   recommending varied choices of food or recommending restaurants depending on
   the type of food to customers . in this paper , we survey the existing food
   recommendation engines and compare the different recommendation algorithms
   content based filtering , collaborative filtering , hybrid techniques etc .
   further , we would see the challenges and limitations of each technique
DE collaborative filtering; comparative study; content-based filtering;
   evaluation; food recommendation system; hybrid techniques; survey
ID food chemistry; wiener filtering; comparatives studies; content-based
   filtering; evaluation; food recommendation system; hybrid techniques;
   recommendation algorithms; revenue generation; food ingredients

---

UT 795
AR Aci M, 2023, TEH VJESN, V30, P1683, DOI 10.17559/TV-20230117000232
TI Demand Forecasting for Food Production Using Machine Learning Algorithms: A
   Case Study of University Refectory
AU Aci M; Yergök D
TC 10
SO TEH VJESN
PY 2023
AB accurate food demand forecasting is one of the critical aspects of
   successfully managing restaurants , cafeterias , canteens , and refectories
   . this paper aims to develop demand forecasting models for a university
   refectory . our study focused on the development of machine learning based
   forecasting models which take into account the calendar effect and meal
   ingredients to predict the heavy demand for food within a limited timeframe
   ( e . g . , lunch ) and without pre booking . we have developed eighteen
   prediction models gathered under five main techniques . three artificial
   neural network models ( i . e . , feed forward , function fitting , and
   cascade forward ) , four gauss process regression models ( i . e . ,
   rational quadratic , squared exponential , matern 5/2 , and exponential ) ,
   six support vector regression models ( i . e . , linear , quadratic , cubic
   , fine gaussian , medium gaussian , and coarse gaussian ) , three regression
   tree models ( i . e . , fine , medium , and coarse ) , two ensemble decision
   tree ( edt ) models ( i . e . , boosted and bagged ) and one linear
   regression model were applied . when evaluated in terms of method diversity
   , prediction performance , and application area , to the best of our
   knowledge , this study offers a different contribution from previous studies
   . the edt boosted model obtained the best prediction performance ( i . e . ,
   mean squared error = 0,51 , mean absolute erro = 0,50 , and are = 0,96 ) .
   2023 , strojarski facultet
DE boosting; decision support systems; demand forecasting; machine learning;
   prediction algorithms
ID adaptive boosting; decision trees; feedforward neural networks; forecasting;
   gaussian distribution; machine learning; mean square error; rational
   functions; boosting; demand forecasting; exponentials; food production;
   forecasting models; gaussians; machine learning algorithms; machine
   learning; prediction algorithms; prediction performance; decision support
   systems

---

UT 796
AR Haussmann S, 2019, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V11779 LNCS, P146, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-30796-7_10
TI FoodKG: A Semantics-Driven Knowledge Graph for Food Recommendation
AU Haussmann S; Seneviratne O; Chen Y/2; Ne’eman Y; Codella J; Chen C-H;
   McGuinness DL; Zaki MJ
TC 155
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2019
AB the proliferation of recipes and other food information on the web presents
   an opportunity for discovering and organizing diet related knowledge into a
   knowledge graph . currently , there are several ontologies related to food ,
   but they are specialized in specific domains , e . g . , from an
   agricultural , production , or specific health condition point of view .
   there is a lack of a unified knowledge graph that is oriented toward
   consumers who want to eat healthily , and who need an integrated food
   suggestion service that encompasses food and recipes that they encounter on
   a day to day basis , along with the provenance of the information they
   receive . our resource contribution is a software toolkit that can be used
   to create a unified food knowledge graph that links the various silos
   related to food while preserving the provenance information . we describe
   the construction process of our knowledge graph , the plan for its
   maintenance , and how this knowledge graph has been utilized in several
   applications . these applications include a sparql based service that let us
   a user determine what recipe to make based on ingredients at hand while
   taking constraints such as allergies into account , as well as a cognitive
   agent that can perform natural language question answering on the knowledge
   graph . resource website : 2019 , springer nature switzerland ag .
ID http; natural language processing systems; cognitive agents; construction
   process; health condition; knowledge graphs; natural language questions;
   software toolkits; semantic web

---

UT 797
AR Bellingeri M, 2025, SCI REP, V15, DOI 10.1038/s41598-025-17189-6
TI The recipe similarity network: a new algorithm to extract relevant
   information from cookbooks
AU Bellingeri M; Bidon-Chanal Badia A; Rigat MV; Alfieri R; Turchetto M; Cassi
   D
TC 0
SO SCI REP
PY 2025
AB this study integrates network science and intersection graph theory to
   analyze the structural properties of recipe networks in catalan cuisine .
   using three distinct cookbooks , two traditional and one haute cuisine , we
   construct the recipe similarity networks by linking recipes based on shared
   ingredients , with link weights reflecting ingredient similarity . we
   introduce a new , ad hoc , similarity measure that overcomes some
   limitations of traditional similarity metrics . we explore how different
   methodological approaches , such as the substitution of recipes /
   ingredients with their composing ingredients and link weight normalization ,
   influence network structure and node centrality . our analysis reveals that
   recipe similarity networks are highly interconnected but show structural
   differences across cuisines , particularly in haute cuisine , which features
   more specialized recipes . node centrality metrics identify key recipes that
   define culinary traditions , such as ' allioli ' in traditional catalan
   cuisine and ' becada con brioche de su salmis ' in haute cuisine . we also
   develop a community detection algorithm based on link removal and clique
   identification , which uncovers tightly knit recipe groups . this study
   advances the field of computational gastronomy by providing a methodological
   foundation that can be integrated with artificial intelligence techniques to
   support recipe personalization , food recommendations , and gastronomic
   innovation
ID algorithm; article; artificial intelligence; benchmarking; detection
   algorithm; drug analysis; drug development; human; major clinical study;
   prescription

---

UT 798
AR Keshav A, 2023, INTELL COMPUT CONTROL ENG BUS SYST ICCEBS, DOI
   10.1109/ICCEBS58601.2023.10448742
TI Smart Dine-in: A Personalized Food Recommendation System
AU Keshav A; Viswanathan S; Dinesh R; Balamurugan M
TC 3
SO INTELL COMPUT CONTROL ENG BUS SYST ICCEBS
PY 2023
AB personalization in business involves a strategy where companies gather data
   from their users and utilize machine learning techniques to provide
   customized content or recommendations . in this context , the paper outlines
   the development of an application that focuses on food recommendations
   tailored to individual user preferences . the application takes various user
   inputs into account , such as weather conditions , dietary restrictions ,
   and the time of day . these inputs are analyzed and fed into a machine
   learning algorithm , which serves as the core decision making component of
   the system . the algorithm itself operates on two primary concepts : content
   based filtering and collaborative filtering . content based filtering
   assesses the characteristics and features of food items , comparing them to
   the user s preferences to recommend similar options . on the other hand ,
   collaborative filtering looks at user behavior and preferences , suggesting
   items based on the preferences of similar users . in addition to content
   based filtering and collaborative filtering , the paper also incorporates
   the k nearest neighbors ( knn ) algorithm as part of its recommendation
   system . the knn algorithm is used to further enhance the personalization of
   food recommendations . it works by measuring the similarity between users
   based on their preferences and behaviors . specifically , it identifies the
   k nearest users who have similar food preferences to the current user .
   these similar users food choices and ratings are then analyzed to suggest
   food items that align with the user s taste . by employing these methods ,
   the application generates recommendations that are highly personalized ,
   ensuring that users receive food suggestions that align with their specific
   tastes and the contextual factors relevant to their meal choices . this
   approach can significantly enhance the user experience and increase user
   engagement with the application
ID behavioral research; collaborative filtering; decision making; learning
   algorithms; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; condition; content-
   based filtering; decisions makings; k-nearest neighbor ( knn ) algorithm;
   machine learning algorithms; machine learning techniques; personalizations;
   time of day; user input; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 799
AR Musto C, 2020, UMAP - PROC ACM CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P333, DOI
   10.1145/3340631.3394880
TI Towards a Knowledge-aware Food Recommender System Exploiting Holistic User
   Models
AU Musto C; Trattner C; Starke A; Semeraro G
TC 38
SO UMAP - PROC ACM CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2020
AB food recommender systems typically rely on popularity , as well as
   similarity between recipes to generate personalized suggestions . however ,
   this leaves little room for users to explore new preferences , such as to
   adopt healthier eating habits . in this short paper , we present a
   recommendation strategy based on knowledge about food and users health
   related characteristics to generate personalized recipes suggestions . by
   focusing on personal factors as a user s bmi and dietary constraints , we
   exploited a holistic user model to re rank a basic recommendation list of
   4,671 recipes , and investigated in a web based experiment ( n=200 ) to what
   extent it generated satisfactory food recommendations . we found that some
   of the information encoded in a users holistic user profiles affected their
   preferences , thus providing us with interesting findings to continue this
   line of research
DE food recommender systems; user modeling
ID recommender systems; eating habits; recommendation strategies; user
   modeling; user models; user profile; web-based; learning to rank

---

UT 800
AR Zhang Z/3, 2025, PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN, V1, P2860,
   DOI 10.1145/3690624.3709382
TI MOPI-HFRS: A Multi-objective Personalized Health-aware Food Recommendation
   System with LLM-enhanced Interpretation
AU Zhang Z/3; Wang Z; Ma T; Taneja VS; Nelson S; Le NHL; Murugesan K; Ju M;
   Chawla NV; Zhang C; Ye Y
TC 5
SO PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN
PY 2025
AB the prevalence of unhealthy eating habits has become a growing concern in
   the united states . however , popular food recommendation platforms , such
   as yelp , tend to prioritize users dietary preferences over the healthiness
   of their choices . while some efforts have focused on developing health
   aware food recommendation systems , personalization based on specific health
   conditions remains underexplored . additionally , the lack of
   interpretability in these systems prevents users from evaluating the
   reliability of recommendations , limiting their practical adoption . to
   address these issues , we introduce two large scale personalized health
   aware food recommendation benchmarks at the first attempt . building on this
   , we propose a novel framework called the multi objective personalized
   interpretable health aware food recommendation system ( mopi hfrs ) . this
   system generates food recommendations by jointly optimizing three objectives
   : user preference , personalized healthiness , and nutritional diversity .
   it also incorporates a reasoning module enhanced by large language models (
   llms ) to provide interpretable recommendations that promote healthy dietary
   knowledge . the framework integrates descriptive features and health data
   using two structure learning and pooling modules within a graph learning
   framework . pareto optimization is applied to balance the multi faceted
   objectives . to further enhance healthy dietary knowledge , the system
   leverages llms by infusing knowledge from the recommendation model ,
   generating meaningful interpretations for the recommendations . extensive
   experiments on the proposed benchmarks demonstrate that mopi hfrs
   outperforms state of the art methods by delivering diverse , healthy food
   recommendations alongside reliable explanations
DE graph neural network; health-aware food recommendation system; large
   language model
ID food ingredients; knowledge management; nutrition; pareto principle;
   personalized medicine; eating habits; graph neural networks; health
   condition; health-aware food recommendation system; interpretability;
   language model; large language model; multi-objective; personalizations;
   personalized healths; recommender systems

---

UT 801
AR Kalra J, 2020, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P82, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW49219.2020.000-3
TI Nutritional profile estimation in cooking recipes
AU Kalra J; Batra D; Diwan N; Bagler G
TC 17
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2020
AB the availability of an accurate nutrition profile of recipes is an important
   feature for food databases with several applications including nutritional
   assistance , recommendation systems , and dietary analytics . often in
   online databases , recipes are obtained from diverse sources in an attempt
   to maximize the number of recipes and variety of the dataset . this leads to
   an incomplete and often unreliable set of nutritional details . we propose a
   scalable method for nutritional profile estimation of recipes from their
   ingredients section using a standard reliable database for the nutritional
   values . previous studies have testified the efficiency of string matching
   methods on small datasets . to demonstrate the effectiveness of our
   procedure , we apply the proposed method on a large dataset , recipedb [ 1 ]
   , which contains recipes from multiple data sources , using the united
   states department of agriculture standard reference ( usdasr ) database as a
   reference for computing nutritional profiles . we evaluate our method by
   calculating the average error across our database of recipes ( 36 calories
   per serving ) which is well within the range of errors attributable to
   physical variations
DE named entity recognition; nutrition; nutrition composition tables; recipe
   dataset; sr; usda
ID agricultural robots; agriculture; database systems; large dataset;
   nutrition; scalability; technical presentations; important features;
   multiple data sources; nutritional profiles; nutritional value; online
   database; scalable methods; string matching; united states department of
   agricultures; thermal processing ( foods )

---

UT 802
AR Lokuge C, 2021, PROC - INT RES CONF SMART COMPUT SYST ENG SCSE, P84, DOI
   10.1109/SCSE53661.2021.9568335
TI Implementation of a personalized and healthy meal recommender system in aid
   to achieve user fitness goals
AU Lokuge C; Ganegoda GU
TC 7
SO PROC - INT RES CONF SMART COMPUT SYST ENG SCSE
PY 2021
AB recent research implies that people s urge to stay healthy and fit has
   drastically improved and currently , many people are in need to maintain
   their physical fitness incorporating healthy food habits into their lives
   amidst hectic urban lifestyles . thus , nutrition applications are
   mushrooming in the fitness domain to aid people to improve their dietary
   intake , track weight related elements , and generate meal plans .
   considering the applications that are typically built for meal planning , it
   was apparent that personalized nutrition incorporated with healthy meal
   suggestions is not well addressed , and hence the need for a personalized
   meal recommendation system that assists the users to achieve their fitness
   goals is identified . learning users food preferences and delivering food
   recommendations that plead to their taste and satisfy nutritional guidelines
   are challenging . due to the lack of access to a proper meal planning
   application or without professional help most users follow ineffective ,
   generic meal plans which hinder them from achieving their fitness goals and
   often because long term and short term health complications . the proposed
   implementation aims to bridge the gap between the existing meal planning
   applications and the potential need for a personalized healthy meal plan .
   this paper succinctly presents the design and implementation of the proposed
   personalized and healthy meal recommendation system and further discusses
   the architecture and the evaluation of the design solution
DE automated meal planning; content-based filtering; personal nutrition;
   personalized meal planning; recommender system
ID recommender systems; automated meal planning; content-based filtering; food
   habit; healthy foods; healthy meals; personal nutrition; personalized meal
   planning; physical fitness; planning applications; recent researches;
   nutrition

---

UT 803
AR Rostami M/1, 2023, EXPERT SYS APPL, V221, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2023.119719
TI A novel healthy and time-aware food recommender system using attributed
   community detection
AU Rostami M/1; Farrahi V; Ahmadian S; Jalali SMJ; Oussalah M
TC 76
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2023
AB food recommendation systems aim to provide recommendations according to a
   user s diet , recipes , and preferences . these systems are deemed useful
   for assisting users in changing their eating habits toward a healthy diet
   that aligns with their preferences . most previous food recommendation
   systems do not consider the health and nutrition of foods , which restricts
   their ability to generate healthy recommendations . this paper develops a
   novel health aware food recommendation system that explicitly accounts for
   food ingredients , food categories , and the factor of time , predicting the
   user s preference through time aware collaborative filtering and a food
   ingredient content based model . based on the user s predicted preferences
   and the health factor of each food , our model provides final
   recommendations to the target user . the performance of our model was
   compared to several state of the art recommender systems in terms of five
   distinct metrics : precision , recall , f1 , auc , and ndcg . experimental
   analysis of datasets extracted from the websites allrecipes . com and food .
   com demonstrated that our proposed food recommender system performs well
   compared to previous food recommendation models
DE community detection; food recommendation; healthy recommendation;
   recommender system
ID collaborative filtering; food additives; nutrition; population dynamics;
   community detection; content-based; eating habits; food ingredients; food
   recommendation; health factors; healthy diet; healthy recommendation;
   performance; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 804
AR Basco AL, 2024, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS - PROC, P262, DOI
   10.1109/AiDAS63860.2024.10730238
TI Tinira Ni Benny: A Recipe Recommender System to Minimize Food Waste
AU Basco AL; Licup PM; Longno DA; Martinez MA; Yabut AL; Zamin N
TC 2
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS - PROC
PY 2024
AB today , food waste remains a significant issue , contributing to
   environmental degradation and economic losses . this paper presents tinira
   ni benny , a recipe recommender system designed to minimize food waste by
   suggesting recipes based on the ingredients available to the user .
   leveraging the tf idf ( term frequency inverse document frequency )
   vectorizer method , tinira ni benny , efficiently matches available
   ingredients with a database of recipes , ensuring that users can create
   delicious meals without the need to purchase additional items . the system
   preprocesses a comprehensive collection of recipes , converting them into a
   structured format suitable for tf idf analysis . by evaluating the relevance
   of ingredients across different recipes , tinira ni benny , identifies
   optimal recipe suggestions that align with the ingredients users have on
   hand . experimental results demonstrate that the tf idf vectorizer method
   significantly improves the accuracy and relevance of recipe recommendations
   compared to traditional keyword matching techniques . the usability test
   indicates users satisfaction with the system s ability to provide practical
   and creative culinary solutions , highlighting its contributions to
   sustainable living and efficient resource utilization
DE food waste reduction; recipe recommender system; tf-idf
ID food waste; inverse problems; degradation loss; economic loss; food waste;
   food waste reduction; frequency analysis; preprocess; recipe recommender
   system; term frequencyinverse document frequency ( tf-idf ); vectorizer;
   waste reduction; food ingredients

---

UT 805
AR Tallab ST, 2016, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V82, P135, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2016.04.020
TI Exploring the Food Pairing Hypothesis in Arab Cuisine: A Study in
   Computational Gastronomy
AU Tallab ST; Alrazgan MS
TC 20
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2016
AB the love to explore propelled the humans to try and discover new things .
   one of which is experimenting with food to come up with new flavors . eating
   a strawberry with chocolate will create a unique taste , while eating the
   strawberry with cheese will create a completely different taste . the
   concept behind these combinations is something called food pairing . the
   science behind food pairing is widely studied in the western and european
   gastronomic societies . in contrast , there are no reported studies of that
   nature conducted in the arab counterparts . our research will be the first
   to examine the food pairing hypothesis in arab cuisine . this hypothesis
   states that food with common flavor compounds taste good when consumed
   together . for the purpose of validating the hypothesis , a quantitative
   mathematical model will be developed and applied on a dataset consisting of
   ingredients compounds found in arab cuisine recipes . in this paper , we are
   presenting a proof of concept of our ongoing project , as well as showing
   the steps that will be followed to apply the food pairing on arab cuisine .
   2016 published by elsevier b . v .
DE arab cuisine; computational gastronomy; data mining; flavor compounds;
   flavor network; food pairing
ID data mining; fruits; space division multiple access; arab cuisine;
   computational gastronomy; proof of concept; quantitative mathematical model;
   flavor compounds

---

UT 806
AR Zhang S, 2023, CONNECT SCI, V35, DOI 10.1080/09540091.2023.2212883
TI CGRS: Collaborative Knowledge Propagation Graph Attention Network for
   Recipes Recommendation
AU Zhang S; Lin X; Bai Z; Li P/5; Fan H
TC 6
SO CONNECT SCI
PY 2023
AB in the age of big data , recipe recommendation is of great significance . it
   can recommend recipes in line with the user s eating habits in massive data
   . compared with other recommendation tasks , recipe recommendation is
   influenced by multiple aspects and requires fine grained learning to obtain
   entity representations . therefore , the traditional recommendation method
   can not meet people s requirements . in this paper , we propose the
   collaborative knowledge propagation graph attention network for recipes
   recommendation ( cgrs ) . this method designs collaborative information
   propagation to make full use of user interaction and recipe attribute
   information to meet the needs of multiple influencing factors . use the
   graph attention feature learning network to obtain the high order feature
   information of the entity to meet the demand for fine grained representation
   . specifically , the method first obtains the multi hop triplet sets of
   users and recipes through a collaborative message propagation strategy .
   then utilizes a graph attention feature learning layer to learn the
   topological proximity structure features of the triplet sets . obtain high
   level semantic information of entities by superimposing network layers .
   design an attention aggregator at the prediction layer to refine the
   embedding representation of entities . finally predict the user recipe
   interaction probability . experimental results prove the advancement and
   effectiveness of cgrs
DE attention feature learning network; attention neural network; collaborative
   knowledge propagation; recipe knowledge graph; recipe recommendation
ID backpropagation; graph neural networks; information dissemination; knowledge
   graph; semantics; topology; attention feature learning network; attention
   neural network; collaborative knowledge; collaborative knowledge
   propagation; feature learning; knowledge graphs; knowledge propagation;
   learning network; neural networks; recipe knowledge graph; recipe
   recommendation; network layers

---

UT 807
AR Sreekumar K, 2025, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS, P519,
   DOI 10.1109/ICAISS61471.2025.11042175
TI A Comparison of Personalised Recipe Recommendation System Machine Learning
   Models
AU Sreekumar K; Renukadevi P; Brindha R; Lakkshmanan A; Rahul G; Patel S
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2025
AB with that due to the rise in lifestyle related dise aeses and the consumers
   growing interest in personalized nutrition , there is a need for intelligent
   recipe recommendation systems that dynamically adapt to users health goals
   and ingredient available . taking a deeper look at this , this work has the
   aim of designing and conducting performance evaluation of a personalized
   recipe recommendation system based on the nutritional information and
   machine learning methodologies . in the proposed system , user provided
   numerical nutritional targets ( calories , protein , fat , fiber , sodium ,
   and cholesterol ) and free text ingredient lists are accepted to produce
   customized recipe suggestions . a comparison of four machine learning
   support vector machines ( svm ) algorithms , transformers , k nearest
   neighbor ( knn ) , and long short term memory ( lstm ) networks shows that
   knn and svm offer just a little bit of predictive accuracy in regards to
   static contexts . however , they do not appropriately model the complex
   dependencies between ingredients and nutritional attributes . a transformer
   can outperform conventional models via its attention mechanism which comes
   with the ability to model ingredient relationships and nutritional
   constraints , but is computationally expensive and therefore is not suitable
   for real time applications . however , transformers offer a desirable trade
   off : long term dependency capture at a usable computational efficiency ,
   and thus are a good fit for real time recipe personalization . as shown by
   this research , the selection of an algorithm such as a dynamic memory or
   memory networks , which condition prediction on item context , is of high
   importance for recommendation systems among health conscious users due to
   the benefit that future systems of recommendation will derive from hybrid
   models based on contextual attention in conjunction with sequential learning
   . the next generation of intelligent culinary assistants will be such
   systems , and it will enable dietary recommendations that target health
   optimization by feeding personalized ones that are simultaneous predictions
   and are relevant to nutritional as well as real time responsive needs
DE k-nearest neighbors; long short-term memory ( lstm ); machine learning;
   nutritional data; personalized nutrition; recipe recommendation; support
   vector machines; transformers
ID big data; computational efficiency; human computer interaction; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; long short-term memory; motion compensation;
   nearest neighbor search; nutrition; support vector machines; text
   processing; k-near neighbor; long short-term memory; machine learning;
   nearest-neighbour; nutritional data; personalized nutrition; recipe
   recommendation; short-term memory; support vectors machine; transformer;
   economic and social effects

---

UT 808
AR Ashraf M, 2022, INT CONF DATA ANAL BUS IND ICDABI, P570, DOI
   10.1109/ICDABI56818.2022.10041496
TI Issues, Challenges, and Opportunities in Food Recommender Systems
AU Ashraf M; Sohail SS; Chaudhry BM
TC 4
SO INT CONF DATA ANAL BUS IND ICDABI
PY 2022
AB recommendation systems are commonly used to provide consumers with
   customized services . they are primarily designed to provide recommendations
   or ideas that address the problems of consumers and can be applied to a
   variety of industries . food recommendation systems are used to propose
   meals to users based on their purpose , assisting users in acquiring the
   most suitable meals . we explain four main types of meal recommendation
   system and algorithms and techniques utilized to implement them for the
   first time in this work . this paper also provides a full overview of
   several frs studies , breaking them down as simply as possible . finally ,
   we explore the current issues in frs as well as the field s future potential
   . this paper will pose a reference to those seeking a detailed breakdown of
   frs in the most coherent way possible
DE food recommendation systems; machine learning; recommendation systems
ID machine learning; current; breakings; customized services; food
   recommendation system; machine learning; recommender systems

---

UT 809
AR del Moral RG, 2026, INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI, V44, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijgfs.2026.101482
TI Artificial intelligence in gastronomy: Cognitive, functional and
   regenerative frameworks for fine dining
AU del Moral RG
TC 0
SO INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is changing cooking from an art based on
   instinct and senses into a field guided by data and intelligent analysis .
   this review analyzes the evolution of ai in fine dining , from flavor
   modeling and molecular creativity to the algorithmic design of edible
   polymers , microbiome based cuisine , and multisensory esthetics . it
   situates these developments within a broader post digital paradigm that
   redefines chefs , algorithms , and microbes as co authors of a distributed
   creative process . drawing on recent advances in computational gastronomy ,
   precision fermentation , and explainable ai , the article proposes
   frameworks for modeling , design , and validation applicable to experimental
   restaurants . it also identifies emerging research frontiers : ai guided
   formulation of edible polymers and intelligent fermentation systems ,
   predictive cooking models combining rheology and sensory data , and
   conversational agents capable of nutritional personalization and emotional
   calibration . together , these examples illustrate how ai can enhance
   sustainability , efficiency , and sensory innovation while preserving the
   cultural and symbolic dimensions of gastronomy . the review further examines
   the ethical , cultural , and regulatory implications of algorithmic
   creativity , advocating transparent and regenerative approaches to
   technological authorship . ultimately , ai is presented as an expanded
   author creative interlocutor that bridges data , matter , and emotion within
   a sustainable fine dining ecosystem
DE artificial intelligence; computational gastronomy; edible polymers; fine
   dining; microbiome; sustainability

---

UT 810
AR Thongsri N, 2022, INT J ELECTR COMPUT ENG, V12, P630, DOI
   10.11591/ijece.v12i1.pp630-638
TI Implementation of a personalized food recommendation system based on
   collaborative filtering and knapsack method
AU Thongsri N; Warintarawej P; Chotkaew S; Saetang W
TC 23
SO INT J ELECTR COMPUT ENG
PY 2022
AB food recommendation system is one of the most interesting recommendation
   problems since it provides data for decision making to users on selection of
   foods that meets individual preference of each user . personalized
   recommender system has been used to recommend foods or menus to respond to
   requirements and restrictions of each user in a better way . this research
   study aimed to develop a personalized healthy food recommendation system
   based on collaborative filtering and knapsack method . assessment results
   found that users were satisfied with the personalized healthy food
   recommendation system based on collaborative filtering and knapsack problem
   algorithm which included ability of operating system , screen design , and
   efficiency of operating system . the average satisfaction score overall was
   4.20 implying that users had an excellent level of satisfaction
DE collaborative filtering; food recommendation system; knapsack method;
   personalized

---

UT 811
AR Cruz ZMC, 2017, RIIT - PROC ANNU CONF RES TECHNOL, P11, DOI
   10.1145/3125649.3125650
TI Usability of "fatchum": A mobile application recipe recommender system
AU Cruz ZMC; Alpay JJR; Depeno JDD; Altabirano MJC; Bringula R
TC 3
SO RIIT - PROC ANNU CONF RES TECHNOL
PY 2017
AB this study1 determined the factors that influenced the usability of '
   fatchum '-a mobile application filipino recipe recommender system . toward
   this goal , two sets of data were gathered to determine the usability of the
   mobile app . the first set of data gathered the demographic factors ( i . e
   . , age , gender , occupation , level of occupation , and level of knowledge
   in cooking ) and the subjective measures of usability of the app in terms of
   its designrelated factors . the design related factors were measured in
   terms of user interface , navigability , and functionality . it was shown
   that age , gender , and navigability were significant factors that
   influenced the usability of the app . the objective measures showed that the
   app can provide recipe names quickly but fails to share the recipes in a
   social networking site . thus , the system is partially successful in
   meeting its intended purpose . recommendations for future studies are also
   offered
DE filipino food; mobile app; recipe recommender system; usability
ID mobile computing; mobile telecommunication systems; usability engineering;
   user interfaces; demographic factors; mobile app; mobile applications;
   objective measure; related factors; social networking sites; usability;
   recommender systems

---

UT 812
AR Qin L, 2020, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P168, DOI 10.1145/3379247.3379292
TI Question answering system based on food spot-check knowledge graph
AU Qin L; Hao Z; Yang L/1
TC 11
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2020
AB question answering system based on food knowledge graph can help people
   understand and analyze the information and potential problems about food
   safety , this paper crawled the data of food spot check data in recent years
   from the official website , and designed the extraction algorithm of food
   general entities , food domain entities and relationships between entities
   for these data . the extracted entity pairs were stored in the gstore
   database . this paper also built a question answering system which
   classified the possible problems of users through grammar analysis and
   designed an explanation for each type of problem . at last , each
   explanation was defined as a template and mapped to the sparql language for
   querying in knowledge graph , the results were shown as lists and data
   graphs on the web pages . 2020 acm international conference proceeding
   series
DE domain knowledge extraction; food spot-check data; haccp; knowledge graph
ID extraction; graph algorithms; knowledge representation; query processing;
   websites; domain entities; domain knowledge extractions; extraction
   algorithms; haccp; knowledge graphs; potential problems; question answering
   systems; relationships between entities; data mining

---

UT 813
AR Saruchera F, 2024, BUILD RESIL GLOB BUS CRISIS PERSPECT EMERG MARK, P152,
   DOI 10.4324/9781032719870-11
TI SMART SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT: The Role of Smart Technologies in the Global
   Food Industry
AU Saruchera F; Salimi-Zaviyeh S-G; Vanani IR
TC 1
SO BUILD RESIL GLOB BUS CRISIS PERSPECT EMERG MARK
PY 2024
AB globally , supply chains have increasingly become more uncertain ,
   vulnerable , and complex . the global covid 19 pandemic worsened such
   uncertainties and complexities . firms have , therefore , been left with no
   choice except to get more innovative and imaginative . traditional supply
   chains are increasingly combining with disruptive technologies . thus ,
   smart decisions and automation capabilities have become more intelligent .
   this chapter assesses innovative technologies contribution to smart global
   food supply chain management through a sequential extant literature review
   and analysis . this chapter further evaluates smart supply chain management
   in the context of seven central areas : information management , process
   automation , information technology , supply chain integration , advanced
   analysis , supply chain integration , and intelligent supply chain risk
   management . the chapter concludes by examining how smart supply chain
   management can be fully utilized in the global food industry to benefit from
   cost reduction , supply chain integration , and increased operational
   efficiency . to this end , two theoretical frameworks are proposed one for
   the application of smart technologies in the implementation of smart supply
   chain management in the food industry . and another for cooperation and
   participation in the context of smart food supply chain management

---

UT 814
AR Harichandan L, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1691 LNNS, P58, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-95-3671-9_6
TI HealthyEat-Kids: GAT-Based Food Recommendation System for Children
AU Harichandan L; Nayak SK; Lenka S
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the initial age of childhood represents a vital period for fostering
   nutritional well being , and childcare settings provide a unique opportunity
   to influence dietary habits on a broad scale . this study introduces a graph
   attention network ( gat ) based approach to recommend top n child friendly
   recipes using the all_recipes dataset . recipes , ingredients , and user
   interactions are represented by nodes in a heterogeneous network , while
   connections such as ingredient similarity and user preferences are captured
   by edges . suitability for young audiences is given priority in
   recommendations thanks to a child friendliness score that is calculated
   using ratings , the number of raters , and review content . tf idf is used
   to process features including ingredients , preparation procedures , and
   nutritional content , which are then coupled with normalized numerical
   properties . by giving graph nodes attention weights , the gat model may
   prioritize and discover important links while using feature data and graph
   structure to make better predictions . our experiment s findings show that
   the gat based model performs better in accuracy , recall , and ndcg metrics
   than baseline techniques like collaborative filtering and gcns . this
   approach offers a scalable way to encourage young children to eat healthily
   by providing varied , pertinent , and customized recipe ideas
DE child friendliness; convolution network; filtering; food recommendation;
   graph attention network
ID distributed computer systems; food ingredients; graph structures;
   heterogeneous networks; nutrition; recommender systems; child friendliness;
   convolution network; food recommendation; graph attention network; network-
   based; network-based approach; review contents; user interaction; user
   preferences; well being; filtration

---

UT 815
AR Musto C, 2021, UMAP - PROC ACM CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P147, DOI
   10.1145/3450613.3456827
TI Exploring the effects of natural language justifications in food recommender
   systems
AU Musto C; Starke AD; Trattner C; Rapp A; Semeraro G
TC 32
SO UMAP - PROC ACM CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2021
AB users of food recommender systems typically prefer popular recipes , which
   tend to be unhealthy . to encourage users to select healthier
   recommendations by making more informed food decisions , we introduce a
   methodology to generate and present a natural language justification that
   emphasizes the nutritional content , or health risks and benefits of
   recommended recipes . we designed a framework that takes a user and two food
   recommendations as input and produces an automatically generated natural
   language justification as output , which is based on the user s
   characteristics and the recipes features . in doing so , we implemented and
   evaluated eight different justification strategies through two different
   justification styles ( e . g . , comparing each recipe s food features ) in
   an online user study ( n = 503 ) . we compared user food choices for two
   personalized recommendation approaches , popularity based vs our health
   aware algorithm , and evaluated the impact of presenting natural language
   justifications . we showed that comparative justifications styles are
   effective in supporting choices for our healthy aware recommendations ,
   confirming the impact of our methodology on food choices
DE decision making; explanation; food recommender systems; natural language
   processing
ID nutrition; recommender systems; automatically generated; natural languages;
   online users; personalized recommendation; health risks

---

UT 816
AR Bianchini D, 2015, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9382, P134, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-25747-1_14
TI A food recommendation system based on semantic annotations and reference
   prescriptions
AU Bianchini D; De Antonellis V; Melchiori M
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2015
AB food recommendation , as well as searching for health related information ,
   presents particular characteristics unlike conventional recommender systems
   , since it often has educational purposes , to improve behavioral habits of
   users . in this paper , we present a menu generation system that uses a
   recipe dataset and annotations to recommend menus according to user s
   preferences . moreover , reference prescription schemes are defined to guide
   our system for suggesting suitable choices . firstly , relevant recipes are
   selected by content based retrieval , based on comparisons among features
   used to annotate both users profiles and recipes . then , menus are
   generated using the selected recipes and are ranked taking into account also
   prescription schemes
ID administrative data processing; big data; content-based retrieval; data
   mining; enterprise resource management; management science; recommender
   systems; semantics; generation systems; health related informations;
   semantic annotations; search engines

---

UT 817
AR Kumar JDS, 2026, PROC INT CONF ELECTRON RENEW SYST ICEARS, P1905, DOI
   10.1109/ICEARS67481.2026.11416566
TI Predictive Modeling of Food Demand using Machine Learning - A Solution to
   Reduce Food Waste
AU Kumar JDS; Nayudu PP; Gowthami MN; Charitha M; Preethi K; Parimala V
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF ELECTRON RENEW SYST ICEARS
PY 2026
AB food waste has become a critical global concern , particularly in large
   scale food services where inaccurate demand estimation leads to surplus
   production and loss . this paper presents a machine learning based
   predictive model designed to forecast daily food demand with higher
   precision , thereby reducing waste and optimizing resource utilization . the
   system integrates multiple regression algorithms including random forest
   regressor , gradient boosting regressor , and ridge regression , trained on
   a public food demand forecasting dataset . after preprocessing and feature
   engineering , the random forest model achieved the best performance with a
   mean absolute error ( mae ) of 67.43 , outperforming gradient boosting ( mae
   = 72.19 ) and ridge regression ( mae = 73.81 ) . the results demonstrate
   that ensemble methods can effectively capture complex non linear
   relationships between features such as center type , meal category , and
   historical demand . the proposed framework can be adapted by food suppliers
   , catering platforms , and smart kitchens to enhance production planning ,
   lower operational costs , and contribute to sustainable food management
DE food demand forecasting; machine learning; predictive analytics; random
   forest regressor; waste reduction
ID adaptive boosting; food supply; food waste; learning systems; machine
   learning; optimization; prediction models; production control; random
   forests; regression analysis; waste utilization; demand forecasting; food
   demand; food demand forecasting; food waste; machine learning; mean absolute
   error; predictive models; random forest regressor; random forests; waste
   reduction; predictive analytics

---

UT 818
AR Shu J, 2025, DISP, V90, DOI 10.1016/j.displa.2025.103138
TI The art of dish: What makes cooked food visually appealing?
AU Shu J; Lee L-H; Sun Y/5; Pu P; Hui P
TC 1
SO DISP
PY 2025
AB people s liking for cooked food is affected by a number of factors ,
   including appearance , taste , smell , and eating habits . among all these
   factors , appearance plays a vital role , especially in some situations
   where only the appearance of food is available on mobile displays . however
   , previous research on the effects of appearance on people s liking for
   cooked food is limited in dimension and scale . in this paper , we
   investigate the relationship between three major visual aspects of cooked
   food and their visual appeal . we propose and extract several visual
   features in terms of color , texture , and layout , based on images
   collected from a large online food community . we also train classifiers
   using proposed visual features to predict the visual appeal of cooked foods
   . the results show that we can achieve about 77 % prediction accuracy , and
   we find people prefer cooked food with bright and warm colors , and a smooth
   surface
DE chinese foods; computational gastronomy; human food interaction ( hfi );
   machine learning
ID artificial intelligence; food ingredients; image processing; textures;
   chinese food; computational gastronomy; cooked food; eating habits; human
   food interactions; human food interaction; machine learning; number of
   factors; visual appeals; visual feature; learning systems

---

UT 819
AR Pitroda H, 2022, PROC INT CONF INNOV PR TECHNOL MANAG ICIPTM, P235, DOI
   10.1109/ICIPTM54933.2022.9753948
TI Analysis and Prediction of Culinary Trends of Males from Rural and Urban
   India Post the Work From Home Culture with a Proposal of a Recipe
   Recommendation System
AU Pitroda H
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF INNOV PR TECHNOL MANAG ICIPTM
PY 2022
AB cooking has traditionally been gendered across various indian families , but
   there has been a shift in this pattern , with males increasingly partaking
   in the kitchen . the positive outcome of the pandemic induced lockdowns is
   that it has made men realize their own culinary potentials and strengthened
   their cooking skills . hence in this paper , i have analyzed the culinary
   trends of males from both rural and urban areas of india before the lockdown
   , during the lockdown and , whether these trends might change post the work
   from home / online education phase ends . data was collected by 250 males
   filling up the 16-item online survey form . i have also built a prediction
   model that predicts if males would continue to cook post the work from home
   / online education phase ends based on a range of factors . algorithms
   namely knn , logistic regression , decision tree , random forest , gradient
   booster , svm , and stacking classifier were utilized . the highest accuracy
   obtained was 93.845 % by using the random forest technique . sentimental
   analysis was also performed on the reviews collected about their cooking
   experience during the lockdown . the findings after performing the
   sentimental analysis revealed that there were a larger number of positive
   reviews , which might imply that males loved their experience of acquiring
   or honing their culinary talents , and that cooking might have become a
   passion for them . as a practical outcome of this research study , i created
   a recipe recommendation system , as the findings of this study revealed that
   males desired to try cooking new dishes . this system is deployed in the
   form of a web application and it is extremely user friendly and easy to
   operate
DE culinary; data visualizations; decision tree gradient booster; india; knn (
   k-nearest neighbor ); lockdown; logistic regression; males; random forest;
   recipe recommendation system; rural india; sentiment analysis; stacking
   classifier; svm ( support vector machine ); urban india; web application
ID cooking; decision trees; logistic regression; nearest neighbor search;
   random forests; recommender systems; rural areas; sentiment analysis;
   culinary; decision tree gradient booster; india; k-near neighbor; lockdown;
   logistics regressions; male; nearest-neighbour; random forests; recipe
   recommendation system; rural india; sentiment analysis; stacking classifier;
   stackings; support vector machine; support vectors machine; urban india; web
   application; web applications; support vector machines

---

UT 820
AR Popovski G, 2019, IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL
   MANAG, V2, P195, DOI 10.5220/0008353201950202
TI FoodontoMap: Linking food concepts across different food ontologies
AU Popovski G; Seljak BK/1; Eftimov T
TC 27
SO IC3K - PROC INT JT CONF KNOWL DISCOV KNOWL ENG KNOWL MANAG
PY 2019
AB in the last decade , a great amount of work has been done in predictive
   modeling in healthcare . all this work is made possible by the existence of
   several available biomedical vocabularies and standards , which play a
   crucial role in understanding health information . moreover , there are
   available systems , such as the unified medical language system , that bring
   and link together all these biomedical vocabularies to enable
   interoperability between computer systems . however , in 2019 , lancet
   planetary health published that the year 2019 is going to be the year of
   nutrition , where the focus will be on the links between food systems ,
   human health , and the environment . while there is a large number of
   available resources for the biomedical domain , only a limited number of
   resources can be utilized in the food domain . there is still no annotated
   corpus with food concepts , and there are only a few rule based food named
   entity recognition systems for food concepts extraction . there are also
   several food ontologies that exist , each developed for a specific
   application scenario . however there are no links between these ontologies .
   for this reason , we have created a foodontomap resource that consists of
   food concepts extracted from recipes . for each food concept , semantic tags
   from four food ontologies are assigned . with this , we have created a
   resource that provides a link between different food ontologies that can be
   further reused to develop applications for understanding the relation
   between food systems , human health , and the environment
DE food data linking; food data normalization; food ontology; food semantics
ID health; interoperability; knowledge engineering; knowledge management;
   natural language processing systems; semantics; application scenario;
   biomedical vocabularies; data normalization; datalinking; food ontology;
   named entity recognition; predictive modeling; unified medical language
   systems; ontology

---

UT 821
AR Chen R-C, 2015, ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL, V6, P1105
TI The application of topsis algorithm to diabetic diet recommendation
AU Chen R-C; Lo Y-W; Jiang H/2
TC 3
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL
PY 2015
AB with the continuing increase of diabetes worldwide , healthy diet for
   patients with diabetes causes people more attentions . in order to meet this
   need , we suggest a diabetic diet recommendation system in this paper . we
   establish food ontology under the guidance of experts . the fuzzy logic
   system is used to infer e patients daily amount of calories demand . the
   knapsack algorithm is then used to recommend suitable food combinations .
   different from other diabetic diet recommendation systems , this system can
   rank the recommended diet combinations using topsis algorithm according to
   food nutrition . 2015 icic international .
DE diet recommendation; fuzzy rule; ontology; topsis algorithm
ID algorithms; fuzzy logic; fuzzy rules; ontology; recommender systems;
   e-patients; food nutrition; food ontology; fuzzy logic system; healthy diet;
   knapsack algorithms; topsis algorithms; nutrition

---

UT 822
AR Dhiman G, 2024, INTERN J INTEL SYST APPL ENG, V12, P409
TI A Review and Research Panorama on Food Recommender System Based on Health
   Care
AU Dhiman G; Gupta G; Sidhu BK
TC 3
SO INTERN J INTEL SYST APPL ENG
PY 2024
AB in recent years , food recommendation systems have garnered increasing
   attention due to their pivotal role in promoting healthy lifestyles . much
   of the current research in the food industry is dedicated to devising
   strategies for recommending suitable food products based on user preferences
   , health considerations , or a combination of both . these systems offer
   users the ability to not only receive personalized food recommendations but
   also to monitor their nutritional intake , encouraging them to make
   constructive changes to their dietary habits . this paper aims to provide a
   comprehensive overview of various recommender systems in the domain of
   recipe recommendation . furthermore , it conducts a systematic review of the
   diverse contributions made in the field of food and diet recommender systems
   , considering user preferences , health factors , or a fusion of both .
   additionally , the paper delves into the research challenges faced , the
   datasets employed , and the methodologies applied in the development of
   these food recommender systems . 2024 , ismail saritas
DE collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; diet and recipe; food
   recommender system; health and nutrition; information retrieval; machine
   learning; recommender system

---

UT 823
AR Aruna A, 2025, INT CONF APPL ARTIF INTELL COMPUT ICAAIC, P306, DOI
   10.1109/ICAAIC64647.2025.11330659
TI Food Recommendation and Calories Estimation
AU Aruna A; Madhuvandhi BR; Vardhan BN; Reddy NP; Reddy VUB
TC 0
SO INT CONF APPL ARTIF INTELL COMPUT ICAAIC
PY 2025
AB in today s fast paced world , maintaining a healthy lifestyle has become
   increasingly challenging due to the widespread availability of high calorie
   , processed foods and the lack of nutritional awareness among individuals .
   people often consume food without understanding its caloric and nutritional
   content , leading to obesity , diabetes , and other lifestyle related
   diseases . to address this problem , the proposed project titled food
   recommendation and calorie estimation system introduces an intelligent , ai
   based solution that automatically estimates the calorie content of food
   items and provides personalized meal recommendations . the system utilizes
   advanced machine learning and computer vision techniques to identify various
   food items from images and predict their corresponding caloric values
   accurately . by integrating deep learning models such as convolutional
   neural networks ( cnns ) , including architectures like vgg16 , resnet , and
   inceptionv3 , the system can detect multiple food types even under complex
   visual conditions . once the food item is identified , the system retrieves
   its nutritional information , including calories , carbohydrates , proteins
   , and fats , from a verified nutrition database such as usda or myfitnesspal
DE calorie estimation; computer vision; convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; food recommendation system
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; learning
   systems; nutrition; caloric value; calorie estimations; computer vision
   techniques; convolutional neural network; deep learning; estimation systems;
   food recommendation system; healthy lifestyles; lifestyle-related disease;
   machine learning; computer vision

---

UT 824
AR Rostami A, 2022, MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG, P39, DOI
   10.1145/3552484.3555748
TI World Food Atlas for Food Navigation
AU Rostami A; Nagesh N; Rahmani A; Jain R
TC 8
SO MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG
PY 2022
AB food plays a central role in agriculture , public wellness , public health ,
   culinary art , and culture . food related data is available in varying
   formats and with different access levels ranging from private datasets to
   publicly downloadable data . every food related query , in principle , is a
   food recommendation problem . we analyze the components of a food
   recommendation and its requirements . we demonstrate the effectiveness of
   having access to worldwide food data from divergent aspects for answering
   food and health related queries that would otherwise be expensive and
   require specialized domain expertise . we present the world food atlas ( wfa
   ) : an open source platform for different stakeholders in the food ecosystem
   to share their data on a global data hub with a singular point of access .
   the world food atlas contains the availability and inter connectivity of
   food and its effects in various forms . we gather real world questions by
   partnering with nutritionists , dietitians , and doctors . we categorize the
   practical food queries to construct requirement tables and develop a novel
   schema to satisfy the requirement table to model the world food atlas .
   finally , we demonstrate how food and lifestyle navigation systems can use
   the world food atlas to enable personalized and context driven solutions to
   person entity context queries
DE food knowledge graph; food recommendation; food schema; health effect
   queries; health navigation; personal food model; recipe dataset
ID health; navigation systems; open data; query processing; food knowledge
   graph; food modeling; food recommendation; food schema; health effect query;
   health effects; health navigation; knowledge graphs; personal food model;
   recipe dataset; knowledge graph

---

UT 825
AR Sukmawani R, 2026, SUSTAIN, V18, DOI 10.3390/su18084136
TI Predicting Sustainable Food Consumption Patterns to Strengthen Regional Food
   Security: An Artificial Neural Network–Based Machine Learning Approach in
   Sukabumi Regency, Indonesia
AU Sukmawani R; Andayani SA; Nainggolan MF; Zarliani WOA; Astutiningsih ET
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2026
AB accurate prediction of food consumption is essential for strengthening
   regional food security planning , particularly in areas experiencing
   increasing food demand and environmental uncertainty . this study aims to
   predict food consumption patterns in sukabumi regency , west java ,
   indonesia , using an integrated artificial intelligence approach . the
   research combines the adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system ( anfis ) for
   forecasting food consumption trends with three machine learning
   classification algorithms support vector machine ( svm ) , random forest (
   rf ) , and logistic regression ( lr ) -to classify food consumption levels .
   historical rice consumption data from 2014 to 2024 were used to train the
   forecasting model and generate projections up to 2030 . the anfis training
   process was conducted with 100 epochs and an error tolerance of 0 ,
   resulting in a training error value of 0.182 , indicating strong model
   learning capability . the comparison between predicted and actual
   consumption values showed a prediction accuracy of 95.2 % , demonstrating
   the reliability of the model in capturing consumption patterns . furthermore
   , food consumption levels were classified into three categories : low ,
   medium , and high . the classification results revealed that random forest
   achieved the most consistent performance across cross validation folds ,
   while svm and logistic regression experienced misclassification in the
   medium consumption category . in several evaluation scenarios , machine
   learning models achieved accuracy levels up to 99.75 % , precision 99.76 % ,
   recall 99.75 % , and f1-score 99.75 % . the integration of anfis forecasting
   and machine learning classification provides a robust analytical framework
   for understanding food consumption dynamics and supports data driven policy
   formulation aimed at strengthening regional food security in sukabumi
   regency
DE anfis; consumption classification; food consumption forecasting; food
   security; indonesia; machine learning; random forest; sustainable food
ID indonesia; west java; analytical framework; artificial intelligence;
   artificial neural network; food consumption; food security; machine
   learning; rice; training

---

UT 826
AR Bacha S, 2025, INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI, V39, DOI 10.1016/j.ijgfs.2024.101098
TI Investigating food pairing hypothesis based on deep learning: Case of
   Algerian cuisine
AU Bacha S; Allili MS; Kerbedj T; Chahboub R
TC 1
SO INT J GASTRON FOOD SCI
PY 2025
AB traditional cuisine is considered a core element of cultural identity . the
   choice of food can often be influenced by identity , culture , and geography
   . this work investigates the traditional algerian cuisine by exploring the
   food pairing hypothesis , which stipulates that combined ingredients with
   common flavor compounds taste better than their counterpart . to gain
   insight into the ingredients compounds found in this cuisine , we analyze
   their characteristics using spectral clustering . then , we propose a model
   based on lstms to test the food pairing hypothesis in the algerian cuisine
   on a collected corpus . our research shows that the algerian cuisine has a
   negative food pairing tendency , which is consistent with the south european
   cuisine , suggesting broader regional culinary patterns . to the best of our
   knowledge , this is the first study to investigate the fph in algerian
   cuisine , contributing to a deeper understanding of the food pairing
   tendencies specific to this region and offering a comparative perspective
   with neighboring mediterranean cuisines
DE algerian cuisine; computational gastronomy; deep learning; food pairing
   hypothesis ( fph ); spectral clustering

---

UT 827
AR Wang J/1, 2024, EGYPT INFORMATICS J, V28, DOI 10.1016/j.eij.2024.100570
TI Improving healthy food recommender systems through heterogeneous hypergraph
   learning
AU Wang J/1; Zhou J/4; Aksoy M; Sharma N/2; Rahman MA/1; Zain JM; Alenazi MJF;
   Aminzadeh A
TC 8
SO EGYPT INFORMATICS J
PY 2024
AB recommender systems in health conscious recipe suggestions have evolved
   rapidly , particularly with the integration of both homogeneous and
   heterogeneous graphs . however , incorporating iot devices into healthcare ,
   such as wearable fitness trackers and smart nutrition scales , presents new
   challenges . these devices generate vast amounts of dynamic , personalized
   data , which traditional graph neural network ( gnn ) models limited to
   simple pairwise connections fail to capture effectively . for example , iot
   sensors tracking daily nutrient intake require complex , multi faceted
   analysis that traditional methods struggle to handle . to overcome these
   limitations , researchers have employed hypergraphs , which capture higher
   order relationships among nodes , such as userfood and ingredient
   interactions . traditional methods using static weights in the laplacian
   hypergraph , inspired by homogeneous graph techniques , often fail to
   account for users evolving health interests . our study introduces a novel
   approach for recommending healthy foods by leveraging userfood and food
   ingredient hyperedges , integrating both convolution and attention based
   hypergraph mechanisms to dynamically adjust weights based on user
   similarities . unlike previous methods , we convert the heterogeneous
   hypergraph into a homogeneous space , using a unified loss function to
   generate recommendations that adapt to individual users changing dietary
   preferences . the model is evaluated on five metrics auc , ndcg , precision
   , recall , and f1-score and shows superior performance compared to existing
   models on two real world food datasets , allrecipes and food . com . our
   results demonstrate significant improvements in recommendation accuracy and
   personalization , showcasing the system s effectiveness in integrating iot
   data for more responsive , health focused food suggestions
DE healthy food recommender systems; heterogeneous healthy food graph;
   hypergraph attention; hypergraph convolution; hypergraph learning
ID healthy food recommender system; healthy foods; heterogeneous healthy food
   graph; hyper graph; hypergraph attention; hypergraph convolution; hypergraph
   learning

---

UT 828
AR Singh A, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1691 LNNS, P83, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-95-3671-9_8
TI PlatePal: A Deep Learning Based Food Recommendation System by Considering on
   Individual Health Conditions and Dietary Needs
AU Singh A; Kumar A/1; Pandey DN; Raj K/1; Singh RK/1; Nag A; Banerji N
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB with the context of modern day hectic lifestyle , every individual has
   certain health issues . also , while taking food and others , often the
   people make mistakes by consuming an item that is not good for his / her
   health conditions . subsequently , the emergence of artificial intelligent (
   ai ) based systems necessitates developing an application which can
   recommend to a user about a food item to be taken or not based on certain
   health suggestions by the physician . the proposed system integrates image
   classification and health based recommendation algorithms to enhance users
   dietary choices . it utilizes advanced image processing techniques to
   accurately identify food ingredients and analyze their nutritional content ,
   providing users with valuable information for healthier eating habits . by
   considering individual health profiles , such as age , gender , and dietary
   needs , the system offers personalized food suggestions . it continuously
   learns from user preferences and health data , tailoring recommendations to
   support specific health goals like boosting immunity or managing weight ,
   thereby promoting overall well being
DE ai-based recommendations; compound scaling; deep learning; pre-trained
   models; recommendation system; smart health
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; image enhancement; learning systems;
   nutrition; artificial intelligent; artificial intelligent based
   recommendation; compound scaling; deep learning; health condition; health
   issues; images classification; pre-trained model; scalings; smart health;
   deep learning; recommender systems

---

UT 829
AR Zhao X, 2025, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL BIG DATA ICAIBD, P646, DOI
   10.1109/ICAIBD64986.2025.11081975
TI A Reasoning Framework for Precise Cooking Process Based on Graph-Guided
   Chain of Thought
AU Zhao X; Huang J/1; Wu Y/3; Yu C/1; Wu J/1; Wu Z/1; Liu H
TC 0
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL BIG DATA ICAIBD
PY 2025
AB the growing adoption of intelligent cooking devices has revealed a critical
   semantic discrepancy between the qualitative descriptors in traditional
   cooking knowledge systems and the control requirements of these automated
   platforms . current systems struggle to address the fundamental demand for
   culinary automation , particularly in achieving precise parametric
   quantification , due to the lack of well defined cooking processes directly
   translatable to device control instructions . to address this challenge ,
   this paper proposes a framework for precise cooking process reasoning based
   on a cooking element relationship graph to guide the chain of thought . the
   framework dissects culinary processes into four core reasoning tasks (
   ingredient preprocessing shape reasoning , cooking temperature reasoning ,
   cooking time reasoning , and seasoning quantity reasoning ) , and
   subsequently constructs a culinary element relationship graph encompassing
   ingredient physical properties , culinary process parameters , and cuisine
   characteristics . this structured knowledge representation serves as prior
   knowledge to guide the initial chain of thought generation in large language
   models , effectively constraining logical deviations in domain specific
   reasoning while maintaining culinary operational consistency . the
   experimental results demonstrate that the framework exhibits a substantial
   enhancement in four distinct types of reasoning tasks , thereby
   substantiating the efficacy of the knowledge guided chain of thought in
   culinary parameter reasoning . by establishing a digital reasoning paradigm
   for the cooking process , this study provides a theoretical framework and
   technical path for the development of precision and personalization of
   intelligent cooking technology
DE chain of thought; computational gastronomy; intelligent cooking; large
   language model
ID chains; cooking; knowledge representation; process control; chain of
   thought; computational gastronomy; cooking process; intelligent cooking;
   language model; large language model; process-based; reasoning framework;
   reasoning tasks; relationship graphs; semantics

---

UT 830
AR Mustafa N/1, 2020, INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL, V11, P269, DOI
   10.14569/IJACSA.2020.0111234
TI iDietScoreTM: Meal recommender system for athletes and active individuals
AU Mustafa N/1; Abd Rahman AH; Sani NS; Mohamad MI; Zakaria AZ; Ahmad A;
   Yatiman NH; Talib RA; Koon PB; Safii NS
TC 15
SO INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL
PY 2020
AB -individualized meal planning is a nutrition counseling strategy that
   focuses on improving food behavior changes . in the sports setting , the
   number of experts who are sports dietitians or nutritionists ( sd / sn ) is
   small in number , and yet the demand for creating meal planning for a vast
   number of athletes often can not be met . although some food recommender
   system had been proposed to provide healthy menu planning for the general
   population , no similar solution focused on the athlete s needs . in this
   study , the idietscoretm architecture was proposed to give athletes and
   active individuals virtual individualized meal planning based on their
   profile , includes energy and macronutrients requirement , sports category ,
   age group , training cycles , training time and individual food preferences
   . knowledge acquisition on the expert domain ( the sn ) was conducted prior
   to the system design through a semi structured interview to understand meal
   planning activities workflow . the architecture comprises : ( 1 )
   idietscoretm web for sn / sd , ( 2 ) mobile application for athletes and
   active individuals and ( 3 ) expert system . sn / sd used the idietscoretm
   web to develop a meal plan and initiate the compilation meal plan database
   for further use in the expert system . the user used idietscoretm mobile app
   to receive the virtual individualized meal plan . an inference based expert
   system was applied in the current study to generate the meal plan
   recommendation and meal reconstruction for the user . further research is
   necessary to evaluate the prototype s usability by the target user (
   athletes and active individuals ) . 2020 science and information
   organization
DE design; development; inference engine; meal planning; sports nutrition;
   expert system
ID expert systems; nutrition; recommender systems; age groups; behavior
   changes; development; energy; general population; meal planning; similar
   solution; sport nutrition; training time; expert system; sports

---

UT 831
AR Qahtan S, 2023, APPL SOFT COMPUT, V138, DOI 10.1016/j.asoc.2023.110170
TI Evaluation of agriculture-food 4.0 supply chain approaches using Fermatean
   probabilistic hesitant-fuzzy sets based decision making model
AU Qahtan S; Alsattar HA; Zaidan AA; Deveci M; Pamucar D; Delen D; Pedrycz W
TC 79
SO APPL SOFT COMPUT
PY 2023
AB the benchmarking of agri food 4.0 supply chain ( agri4sc ) falls under the
   multiple criteria problem in supply chain visibility ( scv ) and supply
   chain resource integration ( scri ) for improving data analytics
   capabilities and achieving sustainable performance ( sp ) . it is considered
   a multiple criteria decision making ( mcdm ) problem due to three main
   concerns , namely , multiple agri4sc evaluation criteria including the scv ,
   scri and sp criteria . these criteria have relative importance and trade
   offs . despite the tremendous efforts over the last years , none of the
   developed agri4scs have met all of the essential agri4sc evaluation criteria
   . another concern raised in the evaluation and benchmarking of the agri4sc
   is the uncertainty of experts . thus , the main contribution of this
   research is to propose an agri4sc benchmarking framework in scv and scri for
   improving data analytics capabilities and achieving sp based on an extension
   of the proposed fermatean probabilistic hesitant fuzzy sets ( fphfss ) and
   mcdm methods . the methodology process is divided into six main parts .
   firstly , an agri4sc decision matrix is formulated based on the intersection
   of the agri4sc alternatives and criteria to cover multiple agri4sc
   evaluation criteria issues . secondly , novel fphfss are proposed along with
   their operational laws , score function , accuracy function , fermatean
   probabilistic hesitant fuzzy average mean operator and fermatean
   probabilistic hesitant fuzzy weighted average operator . the fphfs can
   encompass more sophisticated and uncertain evaluation information . thirdly
   , fermatean probabilistic hesitant fuzzy weighted zero inconsistency is
   formulated to assign weights to the evaluation criteria . fourthly , the
   fermatean probabilistic hesitant fuzzy decision by opinion score method (
   fph fdosm ) is formulated and used to score the alternatives that were
   evaluated subjectively based on scv criteria . fifthly , the fph fdosm based
   multi attributive ideal real comparative analysis ( mairca ) scoring method
   with equal probabilities is proposed to score agri4sc alternatives that were
   evaluated subjectively based on weighted economic , environmental and social
   factors . lastly , the mairca ranking method with unequal probabilities is
   introduced to benchmark agri4sc alternatives that were evaluated objectively
   based on the weighted subcriteria of sp and the trade offs among the
   identified criteria . the robustness and reliability of the results are
   tested via sensitivity analysis and spearman s correlation coefficient
DE agriculture-food 40 supply chain; fermatean probabilistic hesitant fuzzy
   set; multi-criteria decision making; sustainability
ID agriculture; benchmarking; data analytics; decision making; economic and
   social effects; function evaluation; fuzzy sets; sustainable development;
   agriculture-food 40 supply chain; evaluation criteria; fermatean
   probabilistic hesitant fuzzy set; hesitant fuzzy sets; multi-criteria
   decision making; multi-criteria decision making; multicriterion decision
   makings; probabilistics; supply chain visibility; sustainable performance;
   supply chains

---

UT 832
AR Liu L, 2024, EXPERT SYS APPL, V254, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2024.124313
TI An interactive food recommendation system using reinforcement learning
AU Liu L; Guan Y; Wang Z/3; Shen R; Zheng G; Fu X/1; Yu X; Jiang J
TC 27
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2024
AB food recommendation system ( frs ) assists individuals in making healthier
   dietary choices . however , current frs uses collaborative filtering
   algorithms for one step recommendations . although these systems can
   recommend foods based on users historical preferences , they lack the
   adaptability to real time changes in users health requirements and , as a
   result , the dynamic adjustment of recommendation strategies . this study
   introduces a groundbreaking approach by incorporating the dynamic and
   adaptive nature of reinforcement learning algorithms ( rl ) into frs . the
   proposed multi step recommendation framework , reciperl , leverages rl s
   continuous decision making and sustained interaction capabilities . to more
   accurately recommend foods aligned with user preferences , we introduce an
   effective method for expressing users real time state through fused state
   representation . we also introduce an interactive environment to simulate
   authentic interactions between users and the recommendation system ,
   enabling the system to handle multi step recommendations . our approach was
   evaluated using publicly available real world datasets and compared to ten
   state of the art methods . the results of the top@10 analysis show that our
   method outperforms other algorithms significantly , achieving 94.68 % and
   95.67 % for traditional precision and the recommendation system metric ndcg
   , respectively . our method also exhibits adaptability in scenarios where
   user preferences change , achieving 93.2 % and 95.71 % , respectively
DE collaborative filtering; cross attention; food recommender systems;
   reinforcement learning; state representation
ID collaborative filtering; decision making; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; real time systems; reinforcement learning; current; collaborative
   filtering algorithms; cross attention; food recommende system; multisteps;
   real time changes; reinforcement learnings; state representation; system
   use; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 833
AR Fernandez CE, 2023, IEEE CONF AGRIFOOD ELECTRON CAFE - PROC, P94, DOI
   10.1109/CAFE58535.2023.10291801
TI Digitizing Fresh Food Supply Chains to Reduce Loss and Waste
AU Fernandez CE; Ktenioudaki A; Crofton E; Botinestean C; Emond J-P; McCarthy U
TC 2
SO IEEE CONF AGRIFOOD ELECTRON CAFE - PROC
PY 2023
AB food loss and waste is an ever increasing challenge facing humankind from
   both a corporate and social perspective . a key driver of this challenge is
   the requirement to continue to offer and in some cases increase the range of
   products offered to the consumer both in and out of the local season .
   coupled with this is also a requirement to increase , or at the very least
   maintain supply networks that are flexible , adaptive , responsive and fully
   transparent , comply with local and international policy and maintain tight
   margins . a solution requires the implementation of policies , procedures
   and frameworks to promote standardization , collective effort and shared
   value and burden across global food supply chain . to address these
   challenges , a digital remaining shelf life predictor tool was designed
   using an array state of the art convolution neural networking ( cnns ) and
   machine learning techniques architected within an array of low cost industry
   affordable technology . this digital tool is designed to ( 1 ) determine
   quality of and ( 2 ) predict remaining shelf life ( rsl ) of fresh produce
   across the supply chain . provisioning this information will empower all
   stakeholders regardless of their positioning in the supply chain , to adopt
   a first expired first out ( fefo ) biologic based supply chain ,
   facilitating a product based decision framework yielding more agile ,
   responsive and efficient supply chains . preliminary results indicate an
   overall accuracy of prediction of 99.9 % from a theoretical industry
   standard ( best case scenario ) of 84 %
DE circular bioeconomy; digital food supply chains; digital shelf life; food
   waste
ID costs; digital devices; food supply; learning systems; circular bioeconomy;
   corporates; digital food supply chain; digital shelf life; food loss; food
   supply chain; food waste; fresh food; shelf life; social perspective; supply
   chains

---

UT 834
AR Qiao J, 2026, J ENV MANAG, V404, DOI 10.1016/j.jenvman.2026.129230
TI Integrating transparency and circular economy principles into data-driven
   agrifood supply chains for environmental management
AU Qiao J; Appolloni A; Wu M; Cai Y; Cui Z/1
TC 1
SO J ENV MANAG
PY 2026
AB data driven supply chain management capabilities enhance supply chain
   performance by providing insights , analyzes , and predictions . however ,
   the mechanisms through which data driven supply chain management
   capabilities enhance the sustainability of agro processing firms supply
   chains remain insufficiently explored . this study , grounded in
   organizational information processing theory , investigates the relationship
   between data driven supply chain management capabilities and sustainable
   supply chain performance . survey data from 249 chinese agro process firms
   were analyzed using structural equation modeling , confirming that data
   driven supply chain management capabilities significantly boost supply chain
   performance and transparency . supply chain transparency mediates the
   relationship between data driven supply chain management capabilities and
   sustainable supply chain performance , while circular economy thinking
   further amplifies this effect . this study extends organizational
   information processing theory by demonstrating how data driven supply chain
   management capabilities can enhance sustainability in agro processing firms
   through improved transparency and the integration of circular economy
   thinking . for practitioners , the findings highlight how strategically
   leveraging data driven supply chain management capabilities and transparency
   , supported by circular economy thinking , can drive sustainable performance
   , offering a clear pathway for enhancing sustainability in agricultural
   supply chains
DE agro-processing firms; circular economy thinking; data-driven supply chain
   management capabilities; supply chain transparency; sustainable supply chain
   performance
ID agriculture; china; conservation of natural resources; food supply;
   agricultural economics; circular economy; data handling; information
   management; supply chain management; supply chains; sustainable development;
   transparency; agro-processing; agro-processing firm; chain management;
   circular economy; circular economy thinking; data-driven; data-driven supply
   chain management capability; management capabilities; supply chain
   performance; supply chain transparency; sustainable supply chain
   performance; sustainable supply chains; circular economy; environmental
   management; firm size; information processing; supply chain management;
   sustainability; article; cohort analysis; economic aspect; environmental
   management; human; information processing; pharmaceutics; pharmacokinetics;
   prediction; structural equation modeling; supply chain; supply chain
   management; thinking; agriculture; catering service; china; environmental
   protection; environmental management

---

UT 835
AR Qin L, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P559, DOI 10.1145/3377170.3377260
TI Food safety knowledge graph and question answering system
AU Qin L; Hao Z; Zhao L/1
TC 16
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB the issue of food safety in recent years has always been the focus of public
   opinion . every time there are unqualified foods , it will cause widespread
   panic and rumor spread , which has a great impact on social stability .
   therefore , this paper crawled the data of unqualified foods officially
   released in recent years from the network , and designed the extraction
   algorithm of food general entities , food domain entities and relationships
   between entities for these data . the extracted entity pairs were stored in
   the gstore database . in order to solve the problem of association of
   knowledge in knowledge graph , this paper also designed the food safety
   ontology which organized the concepts , classifications and relationships
   about food production and food inspection . finally , this paper also built
   an intelligent question answering system by means of gstore s http service
   to help person grasp the unqualified food information through natural
   language
DE food ontology; food safety; haccp ontology model; knowledge graph; question
   answering system
ID food safety; graph databases; knowledge representation; natural language
   processing systems; ontology; smart city; social aspects; extraction
   algorithms; food ontology; intelligent question answering systems; knowledge
   graphs; natural languages; ontology model; question answering systems;
   relationships between entities; internet of things

---

UT 836
AR Ragho PC, 2025, INDISCON - IEEE INDIA COUNC INT SUBSECTIONS CONF PROC, DOI
   10.1109/INDISCON66021.2025.11254735
TI Redefining Trust in the Food Chain with Blockchain and ML
AU Ragho PC; Dilip PK; Hemraj PP; Rajaram SB; Zashi P; Dagadu PG
TC 0
SO INDISCON - IEEE INDIA COUNC INT SUBSECTIONS CONF PROC
PY 2025
AB the global food supply chain faces critical challenges , including fraud ,
   inefficiency , and a lack of transparency , costing an estimated $ 50
   billion annually and contributing to over 600 million foodborne illnesses
   each year . this research presents an innovative framework that integrates
   blockchain technology with artificial intelligence and machine learning ( ai
   / ml ) to establish a secure , transparent , and scalable traceability
   system . by leveraging the national program for organic production ( npop )
   certification , dynamic qr codes , and decentralized ai driven verification
   , the proposed solution ensures end to end accountability from farmers to
   consumers . the system addresses key gaps in existing platforms like tracex
   and agri10x by offering full npop compliance , zero cost onboarding for
   small scale vendors , and real time fraud prediction . preliminary results
   demonstrate 92 % accuracy in quality prediction and a 0-15 % improvement in
   yield forecasting , validated through a pilot deployment involving 50 local
   vendors . through its modular architecture and consumer centric design ,
   this work advances a data driven agri food ecosystem that enhances trust ,
   efficiency , and sustainability while empowering stakeholders at every level
   of the supply chain
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; costs; food microbiology; food supply;
   learning systems; supply chains; artificial intelligence learning;
   blockchain; critical challenges; food chain; food supply chain; foodborne
   illness; machine learning; national program; organic production;
   traceability systems; forecasting

---

UT 837
AR Gjorgjevikj A, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V16090 LNCS, P395, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-05461-6_26
TI FoodSEM: Large Language Model Specialized in Food Named-Entity Linking
AU Gjorgjevikj A; Martinc M; Cenikj G; Džeroski S; Seljak BK/1; Eftimov T
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB this paper introduces foodsem , a state of the art fine tuned open source
   large language model ( llm ) for named entity linking ( nel ) to food
   related ontologies . to the best of our knowledge , food nel is a task that
   can not be accurately solved by state of the art general purpose ( large )
   language models or custom domain specific models / systems . through an
   instruction response ( ir ) scenario , foodsem links food related entities
   mentioned in a text to several ontologies , including foodon , snomed ct ,
   and the hansard taxonomy . the foodsem model achieves state of the art
   performance compared to related models / systems , with f1 scores even
   reaching 98 % on some ontologies and datasets . the presented comparative
   analyzes against zero shot , one shot , and few shot llm prompting baselines
   further highlight foodsem s superior performance over its non fine tuned
   version . by making foodsem and its related resources publicly available ,
   the main contributions of this article include ( 1 ) publishing a food
   annotated corpora into ir format suitable for llm fine tuning / evaluation ,
   ( 2 ) publishing a robust model to advance the semantic understanding of
   text in the food domain , and ( 3 ) providing a strong baseline on food nel
   for future benchmarking
DE food ontology; large language model; named entity linking
ID computational linguistics; food chemistry; semantics; domain-specific
   modeling; food ontology; language model; large language model; modeling
   systems; named entities; named entity linking; ontologys; open source; state
   of the art; ontology

---

UT 838
AR Yera Toledo R, 2019, IEEE ACCESS, V7, P96695, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2929413
TI A food recommender system considering nutritional information and user
   preferences
AU Yera Toledo R; Alzahrani AA; Martinez L
TC 179
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2019
AB the world health organization identifies the overall increasing of
   noncommunicable diseases as a major issue , such as premature heart diseases
   , diabetes , and cancer . unhealthy diets have been identified as the
   important causing factor of such diseases . in this context , personalized
   nutrition emerges as a new research field for providing tailored food intake
   advices to individuals according to their physical , physiological data ,
   and further personal information . specifically , in the last few years ,
   several types of research have proposed computational models for
   personalized food recommendation using nutritional knowledge and user data .
   this paper presents a general framework for daily meal plan recommendations
   , incorporating as main feature the simultaneous management of nutritional
   aware and preference aware information , in contrast to the previous works
   which lack this global viewpoint . the proposal incorporates a pre filtering
   stage that uses ahpsort as multi criteria decision analysis tool for
   filtering out foods which are not appropriate to the current user
   characteristics . furthermore , it incorporates an optimization based stage
   for generating a daily meal plan whose goal is the recommendation of food
   highly preferred by the user , not consumed recently , and satisfying his /
   her daily nutritional requirements . a case study is developed for testing
   the performance of the recommender system
DE daily meal plan recommendation; multi-criteria decision making; nutritional
   information; recommender systems; user preferences
ID decision making; diseases; nutrition; daily meal plan recommendation; multi-
   criteria decision making; multi-criteria decision analysis; non-communicable
   disease; nutritional information; user characteristics; user preferences;
   world health organization; recommender systems

---

UT 839
AR Rodrigues MS, 2023, APPL SCI, V13, DOI 10.3390/app13137880
TI RecipeIS—Recipe Recommendation System Based on Recognition of Food
   Ingredients
AU Rodrigues MS; Fidalgo F; Oliveira Â
TC 19
SO APPL SCI
PY 2023
AB currently , food waste is a global concern , a problem that arises mainly at
   the consumption level and generates environmental , economic , and social
   impacts . one way to reduce the food waste problem is to use the food we
   already have at home . however , this causes another concern , which is what
   to cook with certain foods . sometimes we do not know what recipes can be
   made . knowing which ingredients can be mixed and how to mix them can be a
   difficult task for a beginner cook , so selecting the right ingredients for
   a recipe is essential . therefore , it is proposed to develop a recipe
   recommendation system through image recognition of food ingredients .
   presently , the system is a web application that recognizes an image given
   by the user and recommends recipes containing the recognized ingredient .
   for this , a convolutional neural network model , the resnet 50 , was built
   to perform image recognition and trained with a dataset that contains about
   36 classes of vegetables and fruits . through this training , the model
   reached 96 % accuracy in classifying the dataset images . the recommendation
   system uses the label of the recognized ingredient to obtain the recipes ,
   which are searched through the edamam api
DE artificial neural network; dataset; food ingredient recognition;
   recommendation system; resnet50

---

UT 840
AR Briatore F, 2026, DISCOV FOOD, V6, DOI 10.1007/s44187-026-00837-9
TI A bibliometric review for mapping synergies between life cycle assessment
   and industry 4.0 in the food sector
AU Briatore F; Chiacchio F; Trapani N; Oliveri LM
TC 1
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2026
AB purpose : exploring how industry 4.0 ( i4.0 ) technologies support or
   intersect with life cycle assessment ( lca ) in the food industry reveals a
   growing but methodologically fragmented body of research . this study aims
   to map the evolution , key actors , and conceptual developments of this
   intersection through bibliometric methods . methods : a total of 414 peer
   reviewed publications from 2010 to 2024 were retrieved from scopus using
   search strings about i4.0 technologies , lca and food sector , using the
   prisma protocol . a two step analysis was conducted : quantitative trends (
   authors , journals , institutions , countries ) and keyword co occurrence
   using vosviewer to detect thematic clusters . results and discussion : four
   thematic areas were identified : iot for smart agriculture , environmental
   impact of food industry , ai driven food processes , and food supply chain
   4.0. while research activity has intensified post 2020 , conceptual
   integration of industry 4.0 and life cycle assessment remains limited and
   fragmented . several clusters show weak connectivity , reflecting a need for
   interdisciplinary bridging . conclusions : this study highlights knowledge
   gaps and emerging directions at the interface of digital innovation and
   environmental sustainability in the food sector . findings support the
   development of a more cohesive research agenda and inform stakeholders
   seeking to align digital transformation with robust sustainability
   assessment tools
DE bibliometric analysis; digital technologies; food sector; industry 40; life
   cycle assessment; sustainability
ID agriculture; artificial life; environmental impact; food industry; food
   processing; food supply; industry 40; life cycle; life cycle assessment;
   smart agriculture; bibliometric; bibliometrics analysis; conceptual
   development; digital technologies; food industries; food sector; key actors;
   step analysis; technology life cycle; technology support; sustainable
   development

---

UT 841
AR Sivilai S, 2016, INF, V19, P3031
TI SWRL Rules Optimization for an In-Patient Diet Planning System (DIPS)
AU Sivilai S; Namahoot CS; Brückner M
TC 2
SO INF
PY 2016
AB swrl stands for semantic web rule language . this paper reports on the
   design and development of swrl rules optimization for an in patient diet
   planning system ( dips ) used in planning meals for patients in hospital and
   for improving the quality of food consumed by patients in terms of
   appropriateness regarding their physical conditions and nutritional
   principles . moreover , the system helps hospitals to effectively manage the
   cost of food preparation for patients . a food ontology , which consists of
   specifications of ingredients , nutrients , nutrition facts and menus , has
   been designed and developed . swrl can also search for those ingredients
   that are suitable for patients according to the food ontology . an
   ingredient optimization algorithm is employed and optimizes the use of
   ingredients that are most appropriate in both nutritional value and cost of
   food preparation aspects . 2016 international information institute .
DE cost management; cost optimization; food ontology; information system;
   knowledge management; swrl

---

UT 842
AR Ahuja JKC, 2021, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V100, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2021.103920
TI IngID: A framework for parsing and systematic reporting of ingredients used
   in commercially packaged foods
AU Ahuja JKC; Li Y/3; Bahadur R; Nguyen Q; Haile E; Pehrsson PR
TC 8
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2021
AB there is lack of information in the scientific literature on types of
   ingredients used in packaged foods . usda s global branded food products
   database makes publicly available a compiled dataset of ingredient lists for
   over a quarter million commercial food products . this paper reports on the
   development of a framework for parsing and systematic reporting of
   ingredients used in commercially packaged foods ( ingid ) in the us and
   delineates the complexity and challenges of current ingredient lists , using
   baked products to illustrate . the major steps in the development of ingid
   prototype were 1 ) identifying top selling baked products , 2 ) obtaining
   their ingredient lists , 3 ) parsing individual ingredients after several
   pre processing steps as ingredient lists were inconsistent and varied , 4 )
   building a thesaurus by assigning a preferred descriptor to equivalent terms
   such as synonyms and spelling errors , and 5 ) assigning broader terms such
   as flour , sweeteners . the current version of ingid includes 3 main files
   an input food details file , an output file of parsed text strings , and a
   thesaurus of 6500 parsed ingredients . ingid can help improve our
   understanding of commercial ingredients , characterizing foods in dimensions
   other than the traditional nutrient profiles , development of food ontology
   , computer programs and artificial intelligence tools
DE baked products; bfpd; commercial ingredients; flour; food ontology; ingid;
   ingredient lists; ingredient network and co-occurrence; thesaurus

---

UT 843
AR D Bungay JD, 2024, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL APPL ICCIA, P262, DOI
   10.1109/ICCIA62557.2024.10719360
TI DIAFOODS: A Content Based Food Recommendation System for Diabetic Patients
AU D Bungay JD; M Matias SM; Santos AA; Arceno PC; Dalipe CF; Lomotan J-AB
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL APPL ICCIA
PY 2024
AB this research addresses the issue of managing diabetes through informed
   dietary choices , especially in regions with a high prevalence of the
   condition like the philippines . in spite of the importance of nutrition in
   diabetes management , accessing personalized dietary advice remains a
   challenge for many due to healthcare barriers . to bridge this gap , the
   study introduces diafoods , a content based food recommendation system
   tailored for diabetic patients . the study investigates the effectiveness of
   diafoods , demonstrating its ability to accurately predict diabetic levels
   and provide relevant dietary recommendations . in experimentation to predict
   the diabetes level of the patient , diabetes prediction dataset from
   informatic education organization in kaggle was used . the dataset was
   divided into 35 percent for training and 65 percent for testing , ensuring a
   balanced evaluation of the model s performance . in a comparative analysis
   of algorithms , random forest emerged as the most accurate classifier ,
   surpassing alternatives with a 96.57 accuracy rate
DE content-based; diabetes management; diabetic levels; diafoods; machine
   learning algorithms; random forest algorithm
ID condition; content-based; diabetes management; diabetic level; diabetics
   patients; diafoods; informatics education; machine learning algorithms;
   philippines; random forest algorithm

---

UT 844
AR Zhang Q/6, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14081411
TI Decoding Global Palates: Unveiling Cross-Cultural Flavor Preferences Through
   Online Recipes
AU Zhang Q/6; Elsweiler D; Trattner C
TC 2
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB navigating cross cultural food choices is complex , influenced by cultural
   nuances and various factors , with flavor playing a crucial role .
   understanding cultural flavor preferences helps individuals make informed
   food choices in cross cultural contexts . we examined flavor differences
   across china , the us , and germany , as well as consistent flavor
   preference patterns using online recipes from prominent recipe portals .
   distinct from applying traditional food pairing theory , we directly mapped
   ingredients to their individual flavor compounds using an authorized
   database . this allowed us to analyze cultural flavor preferences at the
   molecular level and conduct machine learning experiments on 25,000 recipes
   from each culture to reveal flavor based distinctions . the classifier ,
   trained on these flavor compounds , achieved 77 % accuracy in discriminating
   recipes by country in a three class classification task , where random
   choice would yield 33.3 % accuracy . additionally , using user interaction
   data on appreciation metrics from each recipe portal ( e . g . , recipe
   ratings ) , we selected the top 10 % and bottom 10 % of recipes as proxies
   for appreciated and less appreciated recipes , respectively . models trained
   within each portal discriminated between the two groups , reaching a maximum
   accuracy of 66 % , while random selection would result in a baseline
   accuracy of 50 % . we also explored cross cultural preferences by applying
   classifiers trained on one culture to recipes from other cultures . while
   the cross cultural performance was modest ( specifically , a max accuracy of
   54 % was obtained when predicting food preferences ofthe ususers with models
   trained on the chinesedata ) , the results indicate potential shared flavor
   patterns , especially between chinese and us recipes , which show
   similarities , while german preferences differ . exploratory analyzes
   further validated these findings : we constructed ingredient networks based
   on co occurrence relationships to label recipes as savory or sweet , and
   clustered the flavor profiles of compounds as sweet or non sweet . these
   analyzes showed opposing trends in sweet vs . non sweet / savory
   appreciation between us and german users , supporting the machine learning
   results . although our findings are likely to be influenced by biases in
   online data sources and the limitations of data driven methods , they may
   still highlight meaningful cultural differences and shared flavor
   preferences . these insights offer potential for developing food recommender
   systems that cater to cross cultural contexts
DE flavor compounds; food cultures; food preferences; food recommender systems

---

UT 845
AR Adab A, 2024, TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG BUS
   TECHNOL, DOI 10.1109/TQCEBT59414.2024.10545046
TI Food Recommendation System using Custom NER and Sentimental Analysis
AU Adab A; Jain M; Gunavathi R; Bhagat V; Hussain AG; Johnson A
TC 1
SO TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG BUS TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB in today s fast paced lifestyle , the need for efficient and personalized
   solutions is paramount , especially in the category of dining experiences .
   this research responds to this demand by proposing a better food
   recommendation system for zomato reviews . it targets the audience who are
   not aware of the best cuisines and search for user reviews online .
   utilizing custom named entity recognition ( ner ) and sentiment analysis ,
   the system seeks to understand and cater to individual food preferences
   extracted from user reviews . specifically , improving the analysis by
   extracting reviews for ten restaurants in the city of kolkata . by providing
   a specific solution to address the current research gap in the area of
   restaurants recommendation systems , the system recommends top choices for
   neighboring restaurants and best food based on the sentimental analysis of
   the chosen menu items
DE food recommendation system; fuzzy strings; named entity recognition ( ner );
   pre-trained roberta based ner model; sentimental analysis; textblob
ID food chemistry; recommender systems; dining experience; food recommendation
   system; fuzzy string; named entity recognition; pre-trained robertum based
   named entity recognition model; recognition models; sentimental analyze;
   textblob; user reviews; food ingredients

---

UT 846
AR Arulprakash M, 2024, AIP CONF PROC, V3075, DOI 10.1063/5.0217594
TI Food Recommender System using Content Based Filtering
AU Arulprakash M; Joshikha M; Khemka C
TC 2
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2024
AB this research paper focuses on the development of a food recommender system
   using content based filtering . content filtering is a widely used technique
   in recommendation systems that recommends items to users based on their
   preferences and behaviors . the objective is to provide users with
   personalized food recommendations on the basis of their historical dietary
   preferences . the system uses a user item matrix to store the user ratings
   and an item item similarity matrix to calculate . the outcome of the model
   indicates that the proposed food recommender system using content filtering
   provides more accurate and personalized food recommendations compared to the
   traditional recommendation system . 2024 american institute of physics inc .

---

UT 847
AR Elsweiler D, 2022, RECOMM SYST HANDB ED, P871, DOI
   10.1007/978-1-0716-2197-4_23
TI Food Recommender Systems
AU Elsweiler D; Hauptmann H; Trattner C
TC 26
SO RECOMM SYST HANDB ED
PY 2022
AB the frequency with which people make food choices in everyday life means
   that recommender systems may have an enormous potential to influence end
   users lives . if recommenders work well they may offer users health or other
   benefits , although the evidence suggests that standard recommendation
   algorithms tend to reinforce current habits , which may have negative
   consequences . providing suitable recommendations is extremely challenging
   since the decisions people make when choosing food are complex , multi
   faceted and context dependent . the primary contributions of this chapter
   are three fold . the first is to detail the many facets and complexities of
   the problem . we do this by summarizing literature on how people make food
   choices when using digital systems , including recommender systems , search
   engines and online food portals . we , moreover , discuss the ( sometimes
   conflicting ) goals people have when choosing food and what this means for
   recommendation . the second contribution is to review the technologies that
   have been proposed to solve these challenges . we present research on both
   algorithmic and interface development , as well as theories from other
   fields such as theories on behavior change that have been suggested to form
   the basis of adaptive goal and preference modeling . the third contribution
   is to provide an overview of the methods and resources available to study
   food recommendation as a research problem . we conclude by outlining open
   areas yet to be studied , which will drive research in this area in the
   years to come . springer science+business media , llc , part of springer
   nature 2011 , 2015 , 2022 .

---

UT 848
AR Yanai K, 2014, INT J INTERACT MOB TECHNOL, V8, P28, DOI
   10.3991/ijim.v8i2.3623
TI A cooking recipe recommendation system with visual recognition of food
   ingredients
AU Yanai K; Maruyama T; Kawano Y
TC 21
SO INT J INTERACT MOB TECHNOL
PY 2014
AB in this paper , we propose a cooking recipe recommendation system which runs
   on a consumer smartphone as an interactive mobile application . the proposed
   system employs real time visual object recognition of food ingredients , and
   recommends cooking recipes related to the recognized food ingredients .
   because of visual recognition , by only pointing a built in camera on a
   smartphone to food ingredients , a user can get to know a related cooking
   recipes instantly . the objective of the proposed system is to assist people
   who cook to decide a cooking recipe at grocery stores or at a kitchen . in
   the current implementation , the system can recognize 30 kinds of food
   ingredient in 0.15 seconds , and it has achieved the 83.93 % recognition
   rate within the top six candidates . by the user study , we confirmed the
   effectiveness of the proposed system .
DE cooking recipe recommendation; food ingredients; object recognition;
   smartphone application

---

UT 849
AR Li H-C, 2007, PROC INT CONF MACH LEARN CYBERN ICMLC, V5, P2953, DOI
   10.1109/ICMLC.2007.4370653
TI Automated food ontology construction mechanism for diabetes diet care
AU Li H-C; Ko W-M
TC 35
SO PROC INT CONF MACH LEARN CYBERN ICMLC
PY 2007
AB medical nutrition therapy ( mnt ) is important in preventing diabetes ,
   managing existing diabetes , and preventing , or at least slowing , the rate
   of development of diabetes complications . the most common way for diabetes
   educators to inform diabetes patients of their nutrition therapy is by
   introducing food substitution . patients are taught to replace food items
   from the same food group based on the quantity of the desired nutrients .
   however , this method may not provide the best results because it does not
   accurately take into account of all the food characteristics , diabetes diet
   care requirements , and the relationships between the different types of
   food . the goal of our study is to propose an automated food ontology
   constructed for diabetes diet care . our methods include generating an
   ontology skeleton with hierarchical clustering algorithms ( hca ) , class
   naming by intersection naming , and instance ranking by granular ranking and
   positioning . our proposed approach will be helpful to nutritionists in
   creating new food groups and hierarchically rank food replacements and
   recommendations
DE automated ontology construction technology; food ontology; food replacement
   and recommendation; hierarchical clustering
ID cluster analysis; clustering algorithms; patient treatment; automated
   ontology construction technology; food ontology; food replacement and
   recommendation; hierarchical clustering; ontology

---

UT 850
AR Lee C-S, 2010, INT J INTELL SYST, V25, P1187, DOI 10.1002/int.20449
TI Diet assessment based on type-2 fuzzy ontology and fuzzy markupl language
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Acampora G; Hsu C-Y; Hagras H
TC 75
SO INT J INTELL SYST
PY 2010
AB nowadays most people can get enough energy to maintain one day activity ,
   while few people know whether they eat healthily or not . it is quite
   important to analyze nutritional facts for foods eaten for those who are
   losing weight or suffering chronic diseases such as diabetes . this paper
   proposes a novel type 2 fuzzy ontology , including a type 2 fuzzy food
   ontology and a type 2 fuzzy markup language ( fml ) -based ontology , for
   diet assessment . in addition , we also present a type 2 fml ( fml2 ) to
   describe the type 2 fuzzy ontology and the fml2-based diet assessment agent
   , including a type 2 knowledge engine , a type 2 fuzzy inference engine , a
   diet assessment engine , and a semantic analysis engine . in the proposed
   approach , first , the nutrition facts of various kinds of food are
   collected from the internet and the convenience stores . next , the domain
   experts construct the type 2 fuzzy ontology , and then the involved subjects
   are requested to input the different food eaten . finally , the proposed
   fml2-based diet assessment agent displays the diet assessment of the food
   eaten based on the constructed type 2 fuzzy ontology . using the generated
   semantic analysis , people can obtain health information about what they eat
   , which can lead to a healthy lifestyle and healthy diet . experimental
   results show that the proposed approach works effectively where the proposed
   system can provide a diet health status , which can act as a reference to
   promote healthy living
ID fuzzy inference; markup languages; nutrition; ontology; chronic disease;
   convenience stores; domain experts; food ontology; fuzzy ontology; health
   informations; health status; healthy diet; knowledge engines; semantic
   analysis; chemical contamination

---

UT 851
AR Phanich M, 2010, INT CONF SCI APPL ICISA, DOI 10.1109/ICISA.2010.5480416
TI Food recommendation system using clustering analysis for diabetic patients
AU Phanich M; Pholkul P; Phimoltares S
TC 104
SO INT CONF SCI APPL ICISA
PY 2010
AB food and nutrition are a key to have good health . they are important for
   everyone to maintain a healthy diet especially for diabetic patients who
   have several limitations . nutrition therapy is a major solution to prevent
   , manage and control diabetes by managing the nutrition based on the belief
   that food provides vital medicine and maintains a good health . typically ,
   diabetic patients need to avoid additional sugar and fat so the food pyramid
   is recommended to the patients for finding the substitution from the same
   food group . however , there is still a dietary diversity within food groups
   that can affect the diabetic patients . in this study , we proposed food
   recommendation system ( frs ) by using food clustering analysis for diabetic
   patients . our system will recommend the proper substituted foods in the
   context of nutrition and food characteristic . we used self organizing map (
   som ) and k mean clustering for food clustering analysis which is based on
   the similarity of eight significant nutrients for diabetic patient . at the
   end , the frs was evaluated by nutritionists and it has performed very well
   and useful for nutrition area
DE clustering analysis; food recommendation system; k-mean clustering; self-
   organizing map
ID clustering algorithms; conformal mapping; information science; sugar (
   sucrose ); clustering analysis; diabetic patient; healthy diet; k-mean
   clustering; recommendation systems; nutrition

---

UT 852
AR Kawano Y, 2013, ELECTRON PROC IEEE INT CONF MULTIMED EXPO WORK ICMEW, DOI
   10.1109/ICMEW.2013.6618222
TI Mirurecipe: A mobile cooking recipe recommendation system with food
   ingredient recognition
AU Kawano Y; Sato T; Maruyama T; Yanai K
TC 10
SO ELECTRON PROC IEEE INT CONF MULTIMED EXPO WORK ICMEW
PY 2013
AB in this demo , we demonstrate a cooking recipe recommendation system which
   runs on a consumer smartphone . the proposed system carries out object
   recognition on food ingredients in a real time way , and recommends cooking
   recipes related to the recognized food ingredients . by only pointing a
   built in camera on a mobile device to food ingredients , the user can obtain
   a recipe list instantly . the objective of the proposed system is to assist
   people who cook to decide a cooking recipe at grocery stores or at a kitchen
   . in the current implementation , the system can recognize 30 kinds of food
   ingredient in 0.15 seconds , and it achieved the 83.93 % recognition rate
   within the top six candidates
ID exhibitions; food additives; mobile devices; object recognition; recommender
   systems; cooking recipe; food ingredients; grocery stores; cooking

---

UT 853
AR Pizzuti T, 2014, J FOOD ENG, V120, P17, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2013.07.017
TI Food Track & Trace ontology for helping the food traceability control
AU Pizzuti T; Mirabelli G; Sanz-Bobi MA; Goméz-Gonzaléz F
TC 99
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2014
AB this paper describes a food ontology developed for traceability purposes .
   the food track and trace ontology ( ftto ) is part of a general framework
   devoted to managing food traceability and it has been developed with the aim
   of being connected with a global track and trace information system . the
   main goal of the proposed ftto ontology is to include the most
   representative food concepts involved in a sc all together in a single
   ordered hierarchy , able to integrate and connect the main features of the
   food traceability domain . ftto is formed by four modules food , service
   products , processes and actors involved in the supply chain . this paper
   describes the main features of the ftto ontology and some examples of
   application
DE bpmn; food; food processing; ontology; owl; traceability
ID food products; ontology; supply chains; bpmn; food ontology; food
   traceabilitys; owl; service products; traceability; food processing

---

UT 854
AR Yang X, 2011, ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL, V2, P1123
TI A knowledge-driven approach for document clustering
AU Yang X; Yue L; Liu C/4; Zou C; Tian Y/2
TC 0
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL
PY 2011
AB concurrent with progress in food supervision , an overwhelming number of
   textual complaints are accumulating in web pages . the representation of
   these documents by a set of domain specific terminologies and their
   relationships is the result of this process . the objective of this paper is
   to develop an effective method to cluster food complaint documents based on
   a user specified ontology . first , we generalize some concepts with a
   controlled vocabulary in our food ontology based on hownet to extract the
   document features . especially , the food ontology will be extended during
   the procedure of feature extraction . term clustering techniques and latent
   semantic analysis ( lsa ) are used for document clustering . the
   experimental results show the effectiveness of the methodology . 2011 issn
   2185-2766 .
DE key term; latent semantic analysis ( lsa ); ontology; term clustering
ID cluster analysis; feature extraction; information retrieval; semantics; user
   interfaces; websites; controlled vocabulary; document clustering; domain-
   specific terminology; food ontology; key term; latent semantic analysis;
   term clustering; ontology

---

UT 855
AR Ueta T, 2011, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V7091 LNAI, P79, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-642-25975-3_8
TI A recipe recommendation system based on automatic nutrition information
   extraction
AU Ueta T; Iwakami M; Ito T
TC 28
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2011
AB in this paper , we propose a goal oriented recipe recommendation system that
   utilizes information about nutrition on the internet . our system enables
   users without knowledge about nutrition to search easily for recipes with
   natural language to improve specific health conditions . the natural
   language includes i want to cure my acne and i want to recover from my
   fatigue . to do that , we created a co occurrence database that listed the
   co occurrence of 45 common nutrients with nouns such as cold , acne , bone
   etc . then we created a recipe database by collecting 800,000 recipes from
   www . cookpad . com the system and analyzed each recipe to calculate the
   amount of a nutrient in a dish . we compared the results of our system to
   the results we obtained by calculating the nutrient information manually .
   evaluation was done on 1000 dishes . we measured the effectiveness of the
   system using f measure and the average f measure was 0.64 respectively .
   2011 springer verlag .
DE goal-oriented recipe recommendation system; nutritious information
ID nutrition; recommender systems; co-occurrence; f-measure; goal-oriented;
   health condition; information extraction; natural languages; nutritious
   information; nutrients

---

UT 856
AR Lee C-S, 2013, STUD FUZZINESS SOFT COMPUT, V301, P237, DOI
   10.1007/978-1-4614-6666-6_15
TI Type-2 fuzzy set and fuzzy ontology for diet application
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Hsu C-Y; Chen Z-W
TC 5
SO STUD FUZZINESS SOFT COMPUT
PY 2013
AB nowadays , most people can get enough energy to maintain one day activity ,
   while few people know whether they eat healthily or not . it is quite
   important to analyze nutritional facts of foods eaten for those who are
   losing weight or suffering chronic diseases such as diabetes . however ,
   diet is a problem with a high uncertainty , and it is widely pointed out
   that classical ontology is not sufficient to deal with imprecise and vague
   knowledge for some real world applications like diet . on the other hand , a
   fuzzy ontology can effectively help handle and process uncertain data and
   knowledge . this chapter proposes a type 2 fuzzy set and fuzzy ontology for
   diet application and uses the type 2 fuzzy markup language ( t2fml ) to
   describe the knowledge base and rule base of the diet , including
   ingredients and the contained servings of six food categories of some common
   foods in taiwan . the experimental results show that type 2 fuzzy logic
   system ( fls ) performs better than type 1 fls , proving that type 2 fls can
   provide a powerful paradigm to handle the high level of uncertainties
   present in diet . 2013 springer science+business media new york .
DE balanced diet; dietary assessment; dietary healthy level ( dhl ); food group
   balance ( fgb ); fuzzy food ontology; fuzzy ontology; fuzzy personal food
   ontology; percentage of caloric ratio ( pcr ); percentage of calories from
   carbohydrate ( pcc ); percentage of calories from fat ( pcf ); percentage of
   calories from protein ( pcp ); t2fml-based fuzzy inference mechanism; type-2
   fuzzy inference mechanism; type-2 fuzzy markup language ( t2fml ); type-2
   fuzzy set

---

UT 857
AR Kurozumi K, 2013, IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST, DOI 10.1109/FUZZ-
   IEEE.2013.6622502
TI FML-based Japanese diet assessment system
AU Kurozumi K; Lan S-T; Wang M-H; Lee C-S; Kawaguchi M; Tsumoto S; Tsuji H
TC 6
SO IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST
PY 2013
AB this paper presents a fuzzy markup language ( fml ) -based japanese diet
   assessment system and applies it to japanese diet . food exchange list ( fel
   ) , published by japan diabetes society , is adopted as a standard to assess
   one person s diet healthy level to help him / her eat a wide variety of
   foods and drinks to balance the eaten food items and physical activity . fml
   is used to describe the knowledge base and rule base of the diet domain .
   the dietician first defines the nutrient facts of the collected food from
   food guidebook and internet . then , the involved subject records his / her
   personal information and daily meals for a constant period . based on the
   predefined japanese food ontology , including ingredients of each food item
   and the contained units of each food group , the proposed fuzzy inference
   mechanism is implemented to infer the possibility of dietary healthy level
   for one day meal . from the simulation results , the proposed approach is
   feasible to apply to japanese diet assessment
DE dietary healthy level assessment; food exchange list; fuzzy inference
   mechanism; fuzzy markup language; japanese food ontology
ID food chemistry; markup languages; assessment system; dietary healthy level
   assessment; food exchange list; food ontology; fuzzy inference mechanism;
   fuzzy markup languages; japanese food ontology; japanese foods; physical
   activity; rule basis; food ingredients

---

UT 858
AR Oh Y, 2010, J SUPERCOMPUT, V54, P61, DOI 10.1007/s11227-009-0314-5
TI U-BabSang: A context-aware food recommendation system
AU Oh Y; Choi A; Woo W
TC 20
SO J SUPERCOMPUT
PY 2010
AB in this paper , we propose a context aware food recommendation system for
   well being care applications . the proposed system , called you babsang ,
   provides individualized food recommendation lists at the dining table , and
   is based dietary advice in the typical korean medical text . our proposed
   system receives a user s profile , physiological signals , and environmental
   information around the dining table in real time . to operate our system ,
   we present a method for user specified analysis , and also describe time
   division layered context integration which integrates the multiple contexts
   obtained from the sensors . thus , our system recommends appropriate foods
   for each individual s health at the table in real time . springer
   science+business media , llc 2009 .
DE context integration; context-awareness; personalized food recommendation;
   well being care applications
ID context integration; context- awareness; context-aware; environmental
   information; multiple contexts; personalized food recommendation;
   physiological signals; real time; recommendation systems

---

UT 859
AR Wang M-H, 2010, J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT, V1, P111, DOI
   10.1007/s12652-010-0011-5
TI Ontology-based multi-agents for intelligent healthcare applications
AU Wang M-H; Lee C-S; Hsieh K-L; Hsu C-Y; Acampora G; Chang C-C
TC 49
SO J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT
PY 2010
AB a healthy diet and lifestyle are the most effective approaches to prevent
   disease . good eating habits are central to a healthy lifestyle . when a
   person eats too much or too little on a continual basis , the risk of
   disease will increase . therefore , developing healthy and balanced eating
   habits is essential to disease prevention . this paper proposes an ontology
   based multi agents ( omas ) , including a personal knowledge agent , a fuzzy
   inference agent , and a semantic generation agent , for evaluating the
   health of diets . using the proposed approach , domain experts can create
   nutritional facts for common taiwanese foods . next , the users are
   requested to input foods eaten . finally , the food ontology and personal
   profile ontology are constructed by domain experts . fuzzy markup language (
   fml ) is used to describe the knowledge base and rule base of the omas .
   additionally , web ontology language ( owl ) is employed to describe the
   food ontology and personal profile ontology . finally , the omas
   semantically analyzes dietary status for users based on the pre constructed
   ontology and fuzzy inference results . using the generated semantic analysis
   , people can obtain health information about what they eat , which can lead
   to a healthy lifestyle and healthy diet . experimental results show that the
   proposed approach works effectively and diet health status can be provided
   as a reference to promote healthy living . springer verlag 2010 .
DE agent; diet planning; fuzzy inference; fuzzy markup language ( fml );
   ontology
ID chemical contamination; fuzzy inference; health; health risks; intelligent
   agents; knowledge based systems; markup languages; nutrition; semantics;
   diet planning; disease prevention; domain experts; eating habits; food
   ontology; fuzzy markup language ( fml ); health care application; health
   informations; health status; healthy diet; knowledge agents; knowledge base;
   multi-agent; ontology-based; personal profile; rule base; semantic analysis;
   web ontology language; ontology

---

UT 860
AR Li Z/4, 2012, PROC INT CONF MANAG INNOV MANAG IND ENG ICIII, V2, P498
TI Towards matching food metadata in emergency decision-making using ontology
   and MapReduce
AU Li Z/4; Wei H
TC 2
SO PROC INT CONF MANAG INNOV MANAG IND ENG ICIII
PY 2012
AB data integration technologies improve the accuracy of decision making in the
   occurrence of public emergency . set in the emergency food supply , we
   propose in this paper a new method to match food metadata with ontology and
   mapreduce . in specific , by extending the ' argovoc ' ontology from the
   food and agriculture organization of united nations ( fao ) , ontological
   descriptions about food metadata are established . based upon the
   classification of emergency functionalities , food metadata in the same
   category are matched in a two stage tf idf way , which is further
   implemented using the mapreduce framework for efficient parallel computation
   . evaluations on the subsidiary agricultural product metadata , provided by
   the suguo supermarket , show the feasibility of our approach
DE emergency decision making; food ontology; mapreduce; ontology-based data
   integration; tf-idf
ID agricultural products; decision making; food supply; industrial engineering;
   information management; innovation; data integration; emergency decision
   making; food ontology; mapreduce; tf-idf; metadata

---

UT 861
AR Lee C-S, 2010, IEEE TRANS FUZZY SYST, V18, P374, DOI
   10.1109/TFUZZ.2010.2042454
TI A type-2 fuzzy ontology and its application to personal diabetic-diet
   recommendation
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Hagras H
TC 234
SO IEEE TRANS FUZZY SYST
PY 2010
AB it has been widely pointed out that classical ontology is not sufficient to
   deal with imprecise and vague knowledge for some real world applications
   like personal diabetic diet recommendation . on the other hand , fuzzy
   ontology can effectively help to handle and process uncertain data and
   knowledge . this paper proposes a novel ontology model , which is based on
   interval type 2 fuzzy sets ( t2fss ) , called type 2 fuzzy ontology ( t2fo )
   , with applications to knowledge representation in the field of personal
   diabetic diet recommendation . the t2fo is composed of 1 ) a type 2 fuzzy
   personal profile ontology ( type 2 fppo ) . 2 ) a type 2 fuzzy food ontology
   ( type 2 ffo ) . and 3 ) a type 2 fuzzy personal food ontology ( type 2 fpfo
   ) . in addition , the paper also presents a t2fs based intelligent diet
   recommendation agent ( idra ) , including 1 ) t2fs construction . 2 ) a t2fs
   based personal ontology filter . 3 ) a t2fs based fuzzy inference mechanism
   . 4 ) a t2fs based diet planning mechanism . 5 ) a t2fs based menu
   recommendation mechanism . and 6 ) a t2fs based semantic description
   mechanism . in the proposed approach , first , the domain experts plan the
   diet goal for the involved diabetes and create the nutrition facts of common
   taiwanese food . second , the involved diabetics are requested to routinely
   input eaten items . third , the ontology creating mechanism constructs a
   t2fo , including a type 2 fppo , a type 2 ffo , and a set of type 2 fpfos .
   finally , the t2fs based idra retrieves the built t2fo to recommend a
   personal diabetic meal plan . the experimental results show that the
   proposed approach can work effectively and that the menu can be provided as
   a reference for the involved diabetes after diet validation by domain
   experts
DE diabetes; diet recommendation; intelligent agents; interval type-2 fuzzy
   sets ( it2fss ); type-2 fuzzy ontology ( t2fo )
ID artificial intelligence; ecology; fuzzy inference; fuzzy sets; intelligent
   agents; knowledge representation; nutrition; ontology; domain experts; food
   ontology; fuzzy inference mechanism; fuzzy ontology; interval type-2 fuzzy
   sets; ontology model; personal ontology; personal profile; real-world
   application; recommendation agents; recommendation mechanism; uncertain
   datas; fuzzy filters

---

UT 862
AR Lee C-S, 2009, PROC - IEEE/WIC/ACM INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL
   - WORK WI-IAT, V3, P417, DOI 10.1109/WI-IAT.2009.315
TI A novel type-2 fuzzy ontology and its application to diet assessment
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Hsu C-Y; Hagras H
TC 11
SO PROC - IEEE/WIC/ACM INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL - WORK WI-IAT
PY 2009
AB this paper proposes a novel type 2 fuzzy ontology , including a type 2 food
   ontology and a type 2 fmlbased ontology , for diet assessment . in addition
   , the paper presents a type 2 fuzzy diet assessment agent . in the proposed
   approach , firstly , the nutrition facts of various kinds of food are
   collected from the internet and the convenience store . next , the domain
   experts construct the type 2 fuzzy ontology , then the involved volunteers
   are requested to input eaten items . finally , the proposed agent displays
   the diet assessment of the input eaten items based on the constructed type 2
   fuzzy ontology . the experimental results show that the proposed approach is
   feasible for diet assessment
ID intelligent agents; rating; convenience stores; domain experts; food
   ontology; fuzzy ontology; nutrition

---

UT 863
AR Wang M-H, 2013, STUD FUZZINESS SOFT COMPUT, V296, P149, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-642-35488-5_9
TI A Type-2 FML-based fuzzy ontology for dietary assessment
AU Wang M-H; Lee C-S; Chen Z-W; Hagras H; Kuo S-E; Kuo H-C; Cheng H-H
TC 3
SO STUD FUZZINESS SOFT COMPUT
PY 2013
AB diabetes and cardiovascular diseases have gradually become one of the world
   s top ten fatal causes of death for the past few years . as far as the diet
   is concerned , it is easy to find out how to eat healthily and which food is
   good for people on the internet . the diet behavior is highly personalized
   and also associated with the culture and religion . in this chapter , the
   type 2 fml based fuzzy ontology is introduced . moreover , the food ontology
   and type 2 fuzzy dietary ontology are further applied to the dietary
   assessment . additionally , with the technologies of the type 2 fuzzy sets
   and fuzzy inference approach based on fml , the dietary healthy level is
   obtained to give users a reference for their eating . experimental results
   show that the proposed approach is feasible to evaluate the dietary healthy
   level for the collected meal records

---

UT 864
AR Ueta T, 2011, PROC - CONF TECHNOL APPL ARTIF INTELL TAAI, P183, DOI
   10.1109/TAAI.2011.39
TI Implementation of a goal-oriented recipe recommendation system providing
   nutrition information
AU Ueta T; Iwakami M; Ito T
TC 8
SO PROC - CONF TECHNOL APPL ARTIF INTELL TAAI
PY 2011
AB recently , the number of people who use recipe sites is increasing . since
   professional knowledge of nutrition is necessary to decide daily recipes for
   improving health , it may be difficult for general users who do not have
   such knowledge to search for the right recipes . in this paper , we propose
   a goal oriented recipe recommendation system that utilizes information about
   nutrition on the internet . our system enables users without knowledge about
   nutrition to search easily for recipes with natural language to improve
   specific health conditions . the natural language includes i want to cure my
   acne and i want to recover from my fatigue . we compared the results of our
   system to the results we obtained by calculating the nutrient information
   manually . evaluation was done on 1000 dishes . we measured the
   effectiveness of the system using f measure and the average f measure was
   0.64 respectively
DE goal-oriented recipe recommendation system; nutritious information
ID artificial intelligence; nutrition; f-measure; goal-oriented; health
   condition; natural languages; nutritious information; professional
   knowledge; recommender systems

---

UT 865
AR Snae C, 2008, IEEE INT CONF DIGIT ECOSYST TECHNOL IEEE-DEST, P168, DOI
   10.1109/DEST.2008.4635195
TI FOODS: A Food-Oriented Ontology-Driven System
AU Snae C; Brückner M
TC 95
SO IEEE INT CONF DIGIT ECOSYST TECHNOL IEEE-DEST
PY 2008
AB in this paper the authors present the design and development of a counseling
   system for food or menu planning in a restaurant , clinic / hospital , or at
   home , the food oriented ontology driven system ( foods ) . foods comprises
   ( a ) a food ontology , ( b ) an expert system using the ontology , and some
   knowledge about cooking methods and prices , and ( c ) a user interface
   suitable for novices in computers and diets as well as for experts . the
   ontology contains specifications of ingredients , substances , nutrition
   facts , recommended daily intakes for different regions , dishes , and menus
   . the expert system assists in finding the appropriate dish or menu for the
   consumer , client or customer , who use foods by entering their favorite
   ingredients , ingredients to avoid , favorite flavors , and so on . in the
   health section users can provide their gender , age , height and weight ,
   which will be used to calculate such data as the body mass index . with
   foods enterprises can assist customers through an appropriate suggestion of
   dishes and meals with the help of individual nutritional profiles . smes
   that might be interested in using foods are institutions for training and
   instruction of cooking , restaurants , clinics , hospitals , together with
   clinical and therapeutical dietitians and nutritional therapists . in the
   long run such systems might become part of the emerging consumer health
   informatics portfolio
DE expert system; food; food ontology; nutrition; small medium enterprise
ID administrative data processing; decision support systems; digital
   arithmetic; electric energy storage; expert systems; nutrition; user
   interfaces; body mass indices; consumer health informatics; cooking methods;
   daily intakes; design and developments; driven systems; food; food ontology;
   nutritional profiles; small medium enterprise; ontology

---

UT 866
AR Wang M-H, 2010, IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST, DOI 10.1109/FUZZY.2010.5584619
TI Property and Application of Fuzzy Ontology for Dietary Assessment
AU Wang M-H; Lee C-S; Chen Z-W; Lo C-F; Kuo S-E; Kuo H-C; Cheng H-H
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST
PY 2010
AB diabetes and cardiovascular diseases have gradually become one of the world
   s top ten fatal causes of death for the past few years . as far as the diet
   is concerned , it is easy to find out how to eat healthily and which food is
   good for people on the internet . the diet behavior is highly personalized
   and also associated with the culture and religion . in this paper , the
   property of fuzzy ontology is proposed . moreover , the food ontology and
   type 2 fuzzy dietary ontology are further applied to the dietary assessment
   . additionally , with the technologies of the type 2 fuzzy sets and fuzzy
   inference approach , the dietary healthy level is obtained to give users a
   reference for their eating . experimental results show that the proposed
   approach is feasible to evaluate the dietary healthy level for the collected
   meal records
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; fuzzy systems; nutrition; ontology;
   cardiovascular disease; causes of death; dietary assessments; food ontology;
   fuzzy inferencer; fuzzy ontology; ontologys; property; type-2 fuzzy; type-2
   fuzzy set; fuzzy inference

---

UT 867
AR Lee C-S, 2011, IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST, P1791, DOI
   10.1109/FUZZY.2011.6007634
TI Genetic fuzzy markup language for diet application
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Chen Z-W; Hsu C-Y; Kuo S-E; Kuo H-C; Cheng H-H; Naito A
TC 10
SO IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST
PY 2011
AB in this paper , the genetic fuzzy markup language ( gfml ) is presented to
   describe the knowledge base and rule base of the diet domain , including
   ingredients and the contained servings of six food categories of some common
   food . the domain experts first define the nutrient facts of the common food
   to construct the fuzzy food ontology . meanwhile , the involved taiwanese
   students of national university of tainan ( nutn ) record their daily meals
   for a constant period of time . then , based on the built fuzzy food
   ontology , a gfml based learning mechanism combining the genetic learning
   mechanism with the fuzzy markup language ( fml ) is carried out to infer the
   possibility of dietary healthy level for one day meals . from the
   experimental results , it is known that the proposed gfml based learning
   mechanism is workable for the diet domain healthcare applications
DE dietary healthy level assessment; fuzzy markup language; fuzzy ontology;
   genetic learning
ID adversarial machine learning; markup languages; dietary healthy level
   assessment; domain experts; food ontology; fuzzy markup languages; fuzzy
   ontology; genetic fuzzy markup languages; genetic learning; learning
   mechanism; rule basis; taiwanese students; food ingredients

---

UT 868
AR Maruyama T, 2012, IMMPD - PROC ACM WORK INTERACT MULTIMED MOB PORTABLE
   DEVICES CO-LOCATED ACM MULTIMED, P27, DOI 10.1145/2390821.2390830
TI Real-time mobile recipe recommendation system using food ingredient
   recognition
AU Maruyama T; Kawano Y; Yanai K
TC 37
SO IMMPD - PROC ACM WORK INTERACT MULTIMED MOB PORTABLE DEVICES CO-LOCATED ACM
   MULTIMED
PY 2012
AB in this paper , we propose a mobile cooking recipe recommendation system
   employing object recognition for food ingredients such as vegetables and
   meats . the proposed system carries out object recognition on food
   ingredients in a real time way on an android based smartphone , and
   recommends cooking recipes related to the recognized food ingredients . by
   only pointing a built in camera on a mobile device to food ingredients , the
   user can obtain a recipe list instantly . as an object recognition method ,
   we adopt bag of features with surf and color histogram extracted from
   multiple images as image features and linear svm with the one vs rest
   strategy as a classifier . we built 30 kinds of food ingredient short video
   database for experiments . with this database , we achieved the 83.93 %
   recognition rate within the top six candidates . in the experiment , we made
   user study by comparing mobile recipe recommendation systems with / without
   ingredient recognition
DE food ingredient; generic object recognition; mobile; object recognition;
   recipe recommendation; smartphone
ID cooking; experiments; food additives; interactive computer systems; mobile
   devices; multimedia systems; portable equipment; recommender systems; signal
   encoding; smartphones; bag-of-features; color histogram; cooking recipe;
   food ingredients; generic object recognition; image features; linear svm;
   mobile; multiple image; recipe recommendation; recognition rates; user
   study; video database; object recognition

---

UT 869
AR Bundasak S, 2013, INT COMPUT SCI ENG CONF ICSEC, P114, DOI
   10.1109/ICSEC.2013.6694763
TI Dimensionality reduction on slope one predictor in the food recommender
   system
AU Bundasak S; Chinnasarn K
TC 3
SO INT COMPUT SCI ENG CONF ICSEC
PY 2013
AB slope one predictor is one of the most successful approaches for predicting
   the online rating base collaborative filtering . the researcher examined the
   use of dimensionality reduction to improve performance for a new data set
   analysis in the process slope one prediction which is used for analyzing
   data related to persons likes or interests in the menu of food that people
   do not want to eat similar dishes iteratively . this paper presents a method
   for extracting the user s relationally similar behavior by searching for
   best neighbors in computing deviations between varied pairs of items or
   deviation matrix used this matrix to make predictions . the goals of
   improving accuracy of recommender systems that the researchers consider the
   menu fit for the data . therefore , finding the best technique and using the
   recommended data as needed by the inquirer is essential and vital in the
   future
DE collaborative filtering component; recommender systems; reduction; slope one
ID wiener filtering; % reductions; collaborative filtering component; dataset
   analysis; dimensionality reduction; improve performance; matrix; online
   ratings; slope ones; collaborative filtering

---

UT 870
AR Yang X-Q, 2012, ICIC EXPRESS LETT, V6, P1321
TI An ontology-driven approach based on fuzzy equivalence relation for document
   clustering analysis
AU Yang X-Q; Yue L; Ma Z-Q; Lv Y-H; Martinez FS
TC 1
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT
PY 2012
AB document clustering is an effective way to detect similar clusters of
   documents in nature . the objective of this paper is to develop an effective
   methodology to cluster food complaint documents with the guidance of
   ontology and fuzzy set theory . here , the terms in the controlled
   vocabulary of our food ontology describe the hazards in dairy product and
   will be used to guide feature selection . then , the fuzzy compatibility
   relation will be constructed in k dimensional semantic space and a fuzzy
   equivalence relation based on the fuzzy compatibility relation can be
   obtained . finally , a suitable -cut value is selected to determine the best
   number of clusters . several documents have been tested and the results show
   our methodology is effective and accurate .
DE document clustering; fuzzy set theory; ontology
ID dairy products; fuzzy set theory; information retrieval; ontology;
   semantics; compatibility relation; document clustering; food ontology; fuzzy
   equivalence relation; number of clusters; semantic space; cluster analysis

---

UT 871
AR Lee C-S, 2012, INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST, V20, P247, DOI
   10.1142/S0218488512400235
TI A novel genetic fuzzy markup language and its application to healthy diet
   assessment
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Hagras H; Chen Z-W; Lan S-T; Hsu C-Y; Kuo S-E; Kuo H-C;
   Cheng H-H
TC 21
SO INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST
PY 2012
AB in this paper , we present a novel genetic fuzzy markup language ( gfml )
   -based genetic fuzzy system , including the genetic learning base , the
   knowledge base and rule base of fml , the fuzzy inference engine , and the
   genetic learning mechanism . the gfml is applied to the genetic fuzzy system
   for dealing with the knowledge base , the rule base , and the genetic
   learning base of the healthy diet domain , including the ingredients and the
   contained servings of six food categories of some common food in taiwan .
   moreover , the proposed novel system is able to infer the healthy status of
   human s daily eating . in the proposed system , the domain experts first
   define the nutrient facts of the common food to construct the fuzzy food
   ontology . meanwhile , the involved taiwanese students of national
   university of tainan ( nutn ) record their daily meals for a constant period
   of time . then , based on the built fuzzy profile ontology , fuzzy food
   ontology , and fuzzy personal food ontology , a gfml based genetic fuzzy
   system is carried out to infer the possibility of dietary healthy level for
   one day meals . the experimental results show that the proposed gfml based
   genetic fuzzy system gives good results for the healthy diet assessment
DE fuzzy ontology; genetic fuzzy markup language; genetic fuzzy system; healthy
   diet
ID fuzzy inference; fuzzy systems; markup languages; food ontology; fuzzy
   inference engines; fuzzy ontology; genetic fuzzy markup languages; genetic
   fuzzy systems; genetic fuzzy system; genetic learning; healthy diet; its
   applications; rule basis; ontology

---

UT 872
AR Liu I-C, 2010, PROC INT SYMP WEARABLE COMPUT ISWC, DOI
   10.1109/ISWC.2010.5665875
TI Le Festin: Shop sign recognition assisted food recommendation system
AU Liu I-C; Chen I-C; Chen M-S
TC 0
SO PROC INT SYMP WEARABLE COMPUT ISWC
PY 2010
AB as the popularity of smart phone , web 2.0 data , and 3g mobile networks ,
   people are getting used to search for information from the internet anytime
   and everywhere . however , typing text query on mobile device and digesting
   a large number of retrieved user generated data are both inconvenient for
   users . to overcome these troubles , we develop a wearable system , le
   festin , which is a shop sign recognition assisted food recommendation
   system . in le festin , food recommendation list and restaurant related
   information can be easily obtained by just snapping restaurant signboard the
   system is composed of two main techniques : chinese character recognition (
   ccr ) and blog mining . we integrate a powerful ccr algorithm which has the
   accuracy about 90 % and propose a new blog mining method which is combined
   with food name extraction and sentiment analysis . by merging the above two
   functions , a convenient system is built .
ID global system for mobile communications; internet; mining; mobile devices;
   wearable computers; 3g mobile network; blog mining; chinese character
   recognition; recommendation systems; sentiment analysis; sign recognition;
   smart phones; text query; wearable systems; web 20; character recognition

---

UT 873
AR Zhang Q/3, 2013, INT J DISTRIB SENS NETW, V2013, DOI 10.1155/2013/382132
TI A case study of sensor data collection and analysis in smart city:
   Provenance in smart food supply chain
AU Zhang Q/3; Huang T; Zhu Y/1; Qiu M
TC 103
SO INT J DISTRIB SENS NETW
PY 2013
AB accelerated growth of urban population in the world put incremental stresses
   on metropolitan cities . smart city centric strategies are expected to
   comprise solutions to sustainable environment and urban life . acting as an
   indispensable role in smart city , iot ( internet of things ) connects the
   executive ability of the physical world and the intelligence of the
   computational world , aiming to enlarge the capabilities of things in real
   city and strengthen the practicality of functions in cyber world . one of
   the important application areas of iot in cities is food industry .
   municipality governors are withstanding all kinds of food safety issues and
   enduring the hardest time ever due to the lack of sufficient guidance and
   supervision . iot systems help to monitor , analyze , and manage the real
   food industry in cities . in this paper , a smart sensor data collection
   strategy for iot is proposed , which would improve the efficiency and
   accuracy of provenance with the minimized size of data set at the same time
   . we then present algorithms of tracing contamination source and back
   tracking potential infected food in the markets . our strategy and
   algorithms are evaluated with a comprehensive evaluation case of this iot
   system , which shows that this system performs well even with big data as
   well . 2013 qiannan zhang et al .
ID algorithms; electronic commerce; food supply; population statistics; supply
   chains; application area; comprehensive evaluation; contamination sources;
   iot ( internet of things ); metropolitan cities; sensor data collections;
   sustainable environment; urban population; urban growth

---

UT 874
AR Yang X, 2012, J SOFTW, V7, P1687, DOI 10.4304/jsw.7.8.1687-1693
TI Research on food complains document classification based-on topic
AU Yang X; Zou C; Yue L; Gao R
TC 1
SO J SOFTW
PY 2012
AB in this paper , we design a classifier based on topic for food complain
   documents , and take a series of measures to the implementation process . in
   order to accomplish feature reduction , the filter method named term
   filtering for independent topic features is proposed to compress each topic
   feature vector . we introduce the created food ontology as background
   knowledge and to expand the semantic of complaint documents with the aid of
   hownet . so we can supplement effective information and improve the effect
   of text classification . in addition , we take account of different
   importance between title and body in the text , considering that title can
   stand out the topic of text better than the textual body . consequently , we
   separately calculate the word frequency which words are in textual title and
   body . the experiments show that it is necessary to consider the different
   importance between textual title and body , and we can achieve good feature
   reduction effect using the proposed filter method , and the classification
   performance get obvious improvement after the process of term expanding .
   2012 academy publisher .
DE food complain; ontology; text classification; topic
ID classification ( of information ); ontology; semantics; background
   knowledge; classification performance; document classification; feature
   reduction; feature vectors; filter method; food ontology; implementation
   process; text classification; topic; word frequencies; information retrieval
   systems

---

UT 875
AR Lee C-S, 2008, IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST, P1803, DOI
   10.1109/FUZZY.2008.4630615
TI Intelligent ontological agent for diabetic food recommendation
AU Lee C-S; Wang M-H; Li H-C; Chen W-H
TC 42
SO IEEE INT CONF FUZZY SYST
PY 2008
AB diabetes is a chronic illness that food intake affects the body s needs and
   insulin s ability to lower blood sugar . this paper proposes an intelligent
   agent , called the personal food recommendation agent , based on the
   ontology model for diabetic food recommendation . the agent can create a
   meal plan according to a person s lifestyle and particular health needs .
   the required knowledge is stored in the ontology model predefined by domain
   experts . it contains the taiwanese food ontology and a set of personal food
   ontology . the personal food recommendation agent includes the ontology
   creating mechanism , the personal ontology filter , thefood fuzzy number
   creating mechanism , the fuzzy inference mechanism , and the real time
   recommendation mechanism . it retrieves the persona ontology and meal
   records to recommend a personal meal plan based on the fuzzy inference
   mechanism . an experimental platform has been constructed to test the
   performance of the agent . the results indicate that the proposed method can
   work effectively and alleviate the effort of a registered dietician
ID agent-based; blood sugars; chronic illness; domain experts; food intake;
   food ontology; fuzzy inference mechanism; ontology model; recommendation
   agents

---

UT 876
AR Latha K, 2014, INT J APPL ENG RES, V9, P4967
TI Personal diabetic diet recommendation system based on trustworthiness
AU Latha K; Raj Kumar B
TC 6
SO INT J APPL ENG RES
PY 2014
AB medical mining is one of the applications of data mining which is useful to
   extract the knowledge . in this paper , we describe some real world
   application like personal diabetic diet recommendation . now days , there is
   variety of different approaches and algorithms of diabetic food analysis and
   diet recommendation . this paper proposes automated food ontology ( afo )
   constructed for diabetes and novel case based approach for diet recommended
   system . in addition , specifically we propose that the trustworthiness of
   user and user satisfaction must be an important consideration . the afo is
   composed of ontology skeleton with hierarchical clustering algorithms .
   finally , the experimental results show that the proposed work can provide
   the better accuracy and save the computational time and improves performance
   using the euclidean distance metric for hca and perform the visualizing
   similarity metric for trustworthiness . research india publications .
DE case based reasoning; diabetes; diet recommender system; food ontology;
   rating estimation methods; trustworthiness

---

UT 877
AR Gu H, 2009, INT CONF ADV COMMUN TECHNOL ICACT, V2, P987
TI A content-aware fridge based on RFID in smart home for home-healthcare
AU Gu H; Wang D/4
TC 50
SO INT CONF ADV COMMUN TECHNOL ICACT
PY 2009
AB with the ever increasing popularity of radio frequency identification , it
   is easier for us to lead a more convenient and healthier life . in this
   paper we present a content aware fridge based on rfid to provide several
   content aware services to adjust our eating habits . especially , for
   patients , the system is able to inform them to take certain food which is
   good for their health and print a shopping list intelligently when the stock
   of fridge is in short . with the food ontology , we analyze the nutrients
   between the different types of food . and make recommendations on recipe so
   as to ensure that each of the family members will receive a well balanced
   diet .
DE content-aware; rfid; smart home
ID ontology; radio frequency identification ( rfid ); balanced diet; content-
   aware; content-aware services; eating habits; food ontology; rfid; shopping
   lists; smart home; smart homes; refrigerators

---

UT 878
AR Shu Q, 2013, ADV MATER RES, V718-720, P1998, DOI
   10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.718-720.1998
TI Semantic reasoning-based Chinese recipe recommender system
AU Shu Q; Chen HP; Gu JG
TC 0
SO ADV MATER RES
PY 2013
AB for the blank of the recommender system for chinese recipes , this paper
   uses owls wsdl to build a semantic reasoning based chinese recipe
   recommender system . this system through the tool of protege to establish
   the ontology of chinese recipes and then add rules for ontology reasoning .
   on this basis bring out a catering algorithm , using euclidean distance and
   jaccard to calculate the similarity between the dishes . according to the
   similarity as well as user preference , provides a quick means of siding
   dishes for users . ( 2013 ) trans tech publications , switzerland .
DE euclidean distance jaccard; ontology reasoning; recommender system
ID materials science; euclidean distance; ontology reasonings; protege;
   recommender systems

---

UT 879
AR Kung H-Y, 2012, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V165 LNEE, P61, DOI
   10.1007/978-1-4419-8849-2_9
TI Intelligent Personalized Food Recommendation System Based on a Semantic
   Sensor Web
AU Kung H-Y; Nguyen TMP; Kuo T-H; Tsai C-P; Chen C-H/1
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2012
AB with changes in eating habits and lifestyles in taiwan , the number of
   patients with a chronic disease is increasing , especially the number of
   those with hypertension , hyperglycemia , and hyperlipidemia . however , a
   food service recommendation ( fsr ) system based on user clinical data and
   health records has not been investigated . this work proposes a novel
   intelligent personalized food service recommendation system ( ipfsrs ) ,
   which contains a vital sensor web layer ( vswl ) , semantic medical web
   layer ( smwl ) , and medical service presentation layer ( mspl ) . the vital
   sensors in the vswl can transfer user clinical data based on sensor web
   enablement ( swe ) . the smwl uses rule based reasoning ( rbr ) and domain
   ontologies ( dos ) based on the semantic web ( sw ) to determine a user s
   health status according to that user s data from the vswl . furthermore ,
   bayesian classification ( because ) can be utilized to predict future health
   states of users . finally , the fsr determines health states according to
   the current and future health states of users in the mspl . springer
   science+business media , llc 2012 .
DE food service recommendation; ontology; semantic annotation; semantic sensor
   web
ID health; presentation layer; recommender systems; semantic web; food service
   recommendation; foodservices; health state; ontologys; semantic annotations;
   semantic sensor webs; sensor web; service recommendations; vital sensors;
   web layer; ontology

---

UT 880
AR Jain A/1, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1647 LNNS, P162, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-06668-8_16
TI A Comparative Study of Deep Learning Models for Food Freshness Detection
   Using Transform Learning
AU Jain A/1; Bhatt T; Kalyani D; Modh J; Jain A
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the effectiveness of the deep learning models resnet50 , mobilenetv2 , vgg16
   , inceptionv3 , and efficientnetb0 in identifying the freshness of food is
   evaluated in this study using visual analysis . in resource constrained
   situations , these designs are ideal for automated food quality inspection
   and real time freshness monitoring as they offer higher accuracy or
   computational efficiency . transform learning are used to develop binary
   classifiers , which were then trained on a dataset of annotated food photos
   and assessed for efficiency and accuracy . after undergoing standardized
   preprocessing , the models capacity to differentiate between fresh and stale
   food in a variety of test photos was evaluated . the results show the
   advantages and disadvantages of each model . the current stream of research
   frequently concentrates on generic picture classification tasks instead of
   the particular difficulties of distinguishing subtle visual differences in
   food freshness , leaving a gap in knowledge of model robustness under real
   world conditions . the study advances deep learning applications in food
   quality evaluation by offering useful insights for model selection based on
   operational requirements
DE deep learning models; food freshness detection; transform learning
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; learning systems; quality
   control; comparatives studies; deep learning model; food freshness
   detection; food quality; inspection time; learning models; quality
   inspection; real- time; transform learning; visual analysis; computational
   efficiency

---

UT 881
AR Uzunov R, 2026, ITAL J FOOD SCI, V38, P148, DOI 10.15586/ijfs.v38i2.3525
TI Artificial intelligence (AI) in food safety and quality: New approach,
   advantages, and disadvantages
AU Uzunov R; Angeleska A
TC 1
SO ITAL J FOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB the adoption of artificial intelligence ( ai ) within the framework of
   fourth industrial revolution ( industry 4.0 ) is reshaping contemporary food
   safety management by enabling a transition from predominantly reactive
   practices to proactive and predictive approaches . this study explores how
   ai based technologies , including machine learning , computer vision , and
   internet of things ( iot ) technologies , contribute to improved food safety
   control , quality monitoring , and supply chain traceability . the analysis
   indicates that ai driven solutions outperform traditional manual methods by
   delivering faster and more accurate detection of contaminants , improved
   identification of foodborne pathogens , and more reliable shelf life
   prediction . the integration of ai with blockchain further strengthens
   traceability mechanisms , allowing rapid identification and containment of
   contamination events . nevertheless , several limitations remain , notably
   the limited interpretability of complex deep learning models , substantial
   implementation costs , and persistent challenges related to data quality and
   standardization . in addition , ethical issues , such as data protection and
   potential algorithmic bias , highlight the importance of transparent
   governance frameworks . the findings suggest that optimal outcomes are
   achieved when ai systems operate within a human in the loop model ,
   supported by interdisciplinary expertise and harmonized global datasets .
   collectively , these advancements indicate that ai has strong potential to
   enhance the resilience , efficiency , and transparency of the global food
   supply chain , supporting progress toward a zero contamination objective .
   2026 codon publications
DE artificial intelligence; food safety; iot; machine learning; sustainability;
   traceability
ID accident prevention; chemical contamination; deep learning; food
   microbiology; food safety; food supply; industry 40; learning systems;
   pollution detection; supply chains; control quality; food quality; food
   safety control; food safety management; food safety; industrial revolutions;
   internet of things technologies; machine learning; new approaches;
   traceability; sustainable development

---

UT 882
AR Saharan A, 2025, IEEE GUWAHATI SUBSECT CONF GCON, DOI
   10.1109/GCON65540.2025.11173383
TI Understanding Application of AI Technologies in Food Processing Industry: A
   Machine Learning Approach
AU Saharan A
TC 0
SO IEEE GUWAHATI SUBSECT CONF GCON
PY 2025
AB this study conducts a literature review on artificial intelligence
   applications in the food processing industry ( fpi ) , investigating its
   intellectual structure and highlighting critical research themes and
   emerging trends . analyzing 490 scopus indexed articles ( 1979-2025 ) , the
   study systematically assessed through a multifaceted analytical framework
   encompassing metrics such as temporal publication trends , authorship
   dynamics , journal contributions , and the influence of academic
   institutions . furthermore , a structural topic modeling ( stm ) methodology
   was employed which uncovers following eight research themes : leveraging ai
   , blockchain , and robotics for supply chain transformation . ai adoption
   for increasing performance among smes in emerging economies . ai driven
   innovations in biofilm and microbial management . use of ai for sustainable
   process optimization in the food industry . ai driven quality assurance in
   food products . predictive modeling and neural networks in food processing
   management . health risks and consumer behavior in agriculture and food
   sectors . and managing food safety and quality for consumer health and trust
   using ai . the findings provide critical insights for researchers , industry
   practitioners , and policymakers , highlighting the transformative role of
   ai in fpi and offering directions for future research and practical
   implementation
DE artificial intelligence machine learning; food processing; text mining;
   topic modeling
ID agricultural machinery; consumer behavior; food microbiology; food
   processing; food safety; learning systems; machine learning; neural
   networks; processed foods; quality assurance; risk assessment; smart
   agriculture; text processing; ai technologies; applications of ai;
   artificial intelligence machine learning; food processing industry;
   intellectual structures; literature reviews; machine learning approaches;
   machine learning; text mining; topic modeling; health risks

---

UT 883
AR Melikoglu M, 2026, FOOD HUMANIT, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2026.101089
TI Artificial intelligence and deep learning in food shelf life management: A
   global review
AU Melikoglu M
TC 0
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2026
AB a critical engineering analysis is provided regarding the applications of
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and deep learning ( dl ) in advancing
   perishable food shelf life management . addressing the global challenge of
   food waste where approximately one third of total production is lost
   requires a transition from descriptive analysis to predictive engineering
   science . the integration of ai / dl architectures with advanced sensing
   technologies , including hyperspectral imaging , electronic noses , and
   colorimetric sensor arrays , is systematically evaluated for modeling
   complex biochemical degradation pathways . the core focus remains on the
   capacity of models such as convolutional neural network long short term ,
   resnet , and vision transformers to predict critical quality parameters ,
   including total volatile basic nitrogen , total viable count , and flesh
   firmness . synthesis of recent literature ( 20202025 ) indicates that ai
   driven systems consistently achieve superior performance , with
   classification accuracies frequently reaching 95100 % and correlation
   coefficients typically ranging between 0.86 and 0.99. this review identifies
   the necessity of explainable ai to foster industry trust and the adoption of
   multi modal data fusion to enhance model robustness in dynamic environmental
   conditions . ultimately , ai is positioned as a pivotal tool for creating
   mathematically optimized , resource efficient , and sustainable food
   preservation systems
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food quality; food shelf life;
   machine learning

---

UT 884
AR Li C/3, 2026, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V172, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2026.105687
TI Applications and advances of deep learning in food microbiology: From data
   to intelligent analysis
AU Li C/3; Wang X/7; Liu H/1; Zhu D/2
TC 1
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB background : traditional methods for microbial identification ,
   quantification , and safety assessment are often time consuming and labor
   intensive , necessitating more efficient analytical approaches . deep
   learning ( dl ) has emerged as a transformative tool in food microbiology ,
   enabling automated data analysis and intelligent prediction . scope and
   methods : this review systematically examines the application of deep
   learning in food microbiology across four data types . ( 1 ) image data ,
   including microscopic images for microbial identification and colony
   counting , is processed using convolutional neural networks and vision
   transformers ( vit ) . ( 2 ) numerical data , encompassing spectral and
   sensor data for contamination detection and shelf life prediction . ( 3 )
   text data , leveraging natural language processing for food safety
   surveillance and outbreak detection . ( 4 ) multimodal data , integrating
   genomics , transcriptomics , and metabolomics information to achieve
   comprehensive microbial profiling . key findings and conclusions :
   multimodal deep learning frameworks can integrate these diverse data streams
   to provide a more comprehensive understanding of microbial behavior within
   food systems . current challenges include lack of data standardization ,
   poor model interpretability , and scarcity of large scale annotated datasets
   . this review systematically explores potential avenues to address these
   limitations , aiming to provide a theoretical foundation for advancing food
   safety and quality assessment through deep learning applications
DE automated identification; data modality analysis; deep learning; food
   microbiology; multi-modal integration
ID automation; data integration; deep neural networks; food safety; large
   datasets; learning systems; natural language processing systems; safety
   engineering; text processing; automated identification; data modality
   analyze; deep learning; food safety; microbial identification; microbials;
   modality analysis; multi-modal; multi-modal integration; safety assessments;
   food microbiology

---

UT 885
AR Lu S/1, 2026, FOOD CONTROL, V188, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2026.112213
TI Artificial intelligence integration into intelligent food packaging: Toward
   real-time monitoring, sustainable circularity, and precision nutrition
AU Lu S/1; Wang Y/3; He H; Zhou C/1; Liu B/1; Jiang L; Yili A
TC 0
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2026
AB this review synthesizes recent advances in artificial intelligence ( ai )
   -driven intelligent food packaging across four dimensions : real time
   quality monitoring , supply chain optimization , sustainability , and health
   functionality . ai integration is transforming food quality management from
   passive response to active prediction through a unified ' perception
   analysis verification feedback ' framework . multimodal sensors capture
   dynamic food quality in the perception layer . machine learning and deep
   learning build accuracy predictive models in the analysis layer . blockchain
   ensures data integrity and traceability in the verification layer . near
   field communication ( nfc ) and qr codes convert intelligent decisions into
   actionable consumer advice and supply chain responses , while user feedback
   optimizes the system , creating a closed loop value stream . this integrated
   system enhances freshness monitoring accuracy , reduces waste , and enables
   green material design , plastic recycling , and personalized nutrition .
   current challenges include cost control , sensor stability , algorithm
   interpretability , and standardization . future development will focus on
   flexible electronics , edge ai , trusted collaborative architectures , and
   interdisciplinary integration to build safer , smarter , and more
   sustainable next generation food packaging ecosystems
DE artificial intelligence; food packaging; personalized nutrition; supply
   chain management; sustainability

---

UT 886
AR Sajad S, 2025, DISCOV APPL SCI, V7, DOI 10.1007/s42452-025-06826-4
TI Predicting beta-glucan content in food using neural networks
AU Sajad S; Rather KUI
TC 0
SO DISCOV APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB beta glucan , a bioactive polysaccharide found in foods like oats , barley ,
   yeast , and mushrooms , is widely recognized for its significant health
   benefits , including immune modulation and cholesterol reduction . accurate
   prediction of beta glucan content in food products is essential for
   optimizing formulations , improving quality control , and enhancing dietary
   recommendations . this study presents a machine learning approach utilizing
   neural networks to predict beta glucan content based on key physicochemical
   and structural attributes of food samples . input features such as food type
   , molecular weight , solubility , moisture content , processing conditions ,
   and chemical composition were analyzed and used to train a feedforward
   neural network . the model was optimized through hyperparameter tuning and
   validated using cross validation techniques . performance evaluation metrics
   , including r2 , root mean squared error ( rmse ) , and mean absolute error
   ( mae ) , demonstrated the model s ability to achieve high predictive
   accuracy and generalizability . the proposed neural network based framework
   provides a cost effective , time saving alternative to traditional
   laboratory based beta glucan measurements . this predictive tool has
   practical applications in food manufacturing , nutritional research , and
   quality assurance , enabling the design of functional foods with enhanced
   beta glucan content tailored for specific health benefits
DE beta-glucan; bioactive compounds; food analysis; food composition;
   functional foods; health benefits; machine learning; neural networks;
   physicochemical properties; predictive modeling
ID computer control; nutrition; reliability analysis; reliability theory;
   vitamins; beta-glucans; bioactive compounds; food analysis; food
   compositions; functionals; health benefits; machine learning; neural
   networks; physicochemical property; predictive models; dietary supplements;
   model predictive control

---

UT 887
AR Magdas DA, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14101808
TI The Journey of Artificial Intelligence in Food Authentication: From Label
   Attribute to Fraud Detection
AU Magdas DA; Hategan AR; David M/1; Berghian-Grosan C
TC 16
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) tends to be extensively used to develop
   reliable , fast , and inexpensive tools for authenticity control . initially
   applied for food differentiation as an alternative to statistical methods ,
   ai tools opened a new dimension in adulteration identification based on
   images . this comprehensive review aims to emphasize the main pillars for
   applying ai for food authentication : ( i ) food classification . ( ii )
   detection of subtle adulteration through extraneous ingredient addition /
   substitution . and ( iii ) fast recognition tools development based on image
   processing . as opposed to statistical methods , ai proves to be a valuable
   tool for quality and authenticity assessment , especially for input data
   represented by digital images . this review highlights the successful
   application of ai on data obtained through laborious , highly sensitive
   analytical methods up to very easy to record data by non experimented
   personnel ( i . e . , image acquisition ) . the enhanced capability of ai
   can substitute the need for expensive and time consuming analysis to
   generate the same conclusion
DE artificial intelligence; food adulteration; food authentication; image
   processing; processing strategies

---

UT 888
AR Etemadi F, 2025, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V18, P2149, DOI
   10.1007/s12161-025-02854-3
TI Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy and Chemometric Models for
   Acrylamide Detection in Cereal-Based Baby Foods: A Machine Learning Approach
AU Etemadi F; Khoshhal A; Hosseini E
TC 0
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2025
AB monitoring baby cereal foods is vital , as acrylamide levels can pose a food
   safety risk during infants rapid growth phase . in this study , fourier
   transform infrared ( ftir ) spectroscopy , covering the spectral range of
   6504000 cm1 , combined with multivariate methods such as interval partial
   least squares ( ipls ) , principal component analysis ( pca ) , and partial
   least squares discriminant analysis ( pls da ) , was employed to classify
   and detect acrylamide contamination in the samples at different
   concentrations ( 0 , 10 , and 50 ppm ) . the models were evaluated using key
   metrics such as sensitivity , specificity , and classification efficiency .
   the ipls regression model , using savitzky golay ( sg ) filter preprocessing
   , demonstrated superior performance over the full spectrum partial least
   squares regression ( plsr ) . the root mean square error of cross validation
   ( rmsecv ) for biscuits was 0.106 using the ipls model and 0.162 for the
   full spectrum model , while for cerelac samples , the values were 0.061 and
   0.097 , respectively . pca showed distinct clustering of samples according
   to acrylamide concentrations . in the pls da model , pure samples showed 100
   % classification efficiency , while spiked samples ( biscuits and cerelacs )
   achieved average sensitivity , specificity , and efficiency rates of 95.6 %
   , 100 % , and 97.2 % and 100 % , 93.3 % , and 96.5 % , respectively . this
   study shows that ftir spectroscopy with chemometric models is a reliable ,
   cost effective , and rapid method for detecting acrylamide in the cereal
   foods
DE biscuit; cerelac; chemometrics; ipls; pca; pls-da
ID amides; cost effectiveness; discriminant analysis; food safety; learning
   systems; least squares approximations; machine learning; multivariant
   analysis; principal component analysis; regression analysis; spectrum
   analysis; acrylamides; biscuit; cerelac; chemometrices; fourier transform
   infrared; interval partial least square; partial least squares discriminant
   analyzes ( pls-da ); partial least squares; principal component analysis;
   transform infrared spectroscopy; fourier transform infrared spectroscopy

---

UT 889
AR Kumar MGV, 2025, GLOB CONF EMERG TECHNOL GINOTECH, DOI
   10.1109/GINOTECH63460.2025.11076802
TI Deep Learning for Food Analysis: Real-Time Identification and Calorie
   Estimation with MobileNet
AU Kumar MGV; Prakash KS; Shushanka NS; Rishika E
TC 0
SO GLOB CONF EMERG TECHNOL GINOTECH
PY 2025
AB the modern lifestyle s reliance on convenience food has produced a huge
   health concern , with consumers lacking real time understanding of the
   nutritional value of their meals , resulting in erroneous dietary decisions
   and contributing to rising rates of obesity , diabetes , and heart disease .
   traditional monitoring approaches , such as food diaries and manual
   nutritional lookups , have proven ineffective due to their time consuming
   nature , high user effort requirements , erroneous portion estimates , and
   lack of real time feedback , resulting in low user adherence . deep learning
   driven food recognition and calorie estimate utilizing the mobilenet
   architecture provide more and exact solution for nutritional analysis . this
   technology uses cnn to provide accurate real time predictions of food
   categories and calorie content . the dataset contains breakfast items ,
   fruits , snacks , major dishes , drinks , and desserts , guaranteeing that
   the model works well across varied food kinds . the calorie estimation
   module improves results by combining recognized food photos with a
   nutritional database , giving consumers accurate dietary advice
DE calorie estimation; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food
   recognition; mobilenet
ID convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; nutrition; calorie
   estimations; convenience food; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   food analysis; food recognition; health concerns; mobilenet; real- time;
   real time identification; beverages

---

UT 890
AR Li Q/3, 2026, RESOUR CONSERV RECYCL, V224, DOI
   10.1016/j.resconrec.2025.108539
TI The impact of climate change on China's food security considering artificial
   intelligence level: Based on XGBoost and RIME-CNN-LSTM-ATT models
AU Li Q/3; Chen H; Long R; Sun Q; Huang Z/1
TC 3
SO RESOUR CONSERV RECYCL
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) plays a pivotal role in addressing the
   challenges of climate change and food security ( fs ) . the current state of
   fs in china is evaluated from the perspectives of consumption and production
   . six machine learning models are employed to explore the relationship among
   climate change , ai level and fs . a novel fs prediction model is proposed
   based on rime cnn lstm att algorithm to predict fs trends under multiple
   scenarios . the results reveal that : the shap values of ai are all positive
   , indicating the significant potential of ai in enhancing fs . in major
   grain producing region , temperature accounts for 58.6 % of the influence on
   fs , representing the primary driver . rainfall and sunshine are identified
   as the main threats to fs in grain producing consuming balance area . under
   the baseline , ssp1+rcp2.6 , and ssp2+rcp4.5 scenarios , china s overall fs
   level will increase 2.30 % , 2.93 % , and 2.37 % by 2035 , respectively ,
   but decline by 6.68 % under ssp5+rcp8.5
DE artificial intelligence; climate change; food security; machine learning
ID climate models; food security; learning systems; machine learning; current;
   food security; machine learning models; machine learning; novel foods;
   prediction modeling; security level; security trends; artificial
   intelligence; climate change; climate effect; food security; machine
   learning; algorithm; article; artificial intelligence; china; climate
   change; diagnosis; food security; grain; machine learning; predictive model;
   rain; temperature; climate change

---

UT 891
AR Aghababaei A, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14030411
TI Artificial Intelligence in Agro-Food Systems: From Farm to Fork
AU Aghababaei A; Aghababaei F; Pignitter M; Hadidi M
TC 33
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB the current landscape of the food processing industry places a strong
   emphasis on improving food quality , nutritional value , and processing
   techniques . this focus arises from consumer demand for products that adhere
   to high standards of quality , sensory characteristics , and extended shelf
   life . the emergence of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning
   ( ml ) technologies is instrumental in addressing the challenges associated
   with variability in food processing . ai represents a promising
   interdisciplinary approach for enhancing performance across various sectors
   of the food industry . significant advancements have been made to address
   challenges and facilitate growth within the food sector . this review
   highlights the applications of ai in agriculture and various sectors of the
   food industry , including bakery , beverage , dairy , food safety , fruit
   and vegetable industries , packaging and sorting , and the drying of fresh
   foods . various strategies have been implemented across different food
   sectors to promote advancements in technology . additionally , this article
   explores the potential for advancing 3d printing technology to enhance
   various aspects of the food industry , from manufacturing to service , while
   also outlining future perspectives
DE agriculture sector; algorithms; artificial neural networks; computer
   science; food industry; machine learning

---

UT 892
AR Zhekova M, 2025, FOOD SCI APPL BIOTECHNOL, V8, P112, DOI
   10.30721/fsab2025.v8.i1.477
TI Application of artificial intelligence in the food industry
AU Zhekova M
TC 1
SO FOOD SCI APPL BIOTECHNOL
PY 2025
AB the article examines innovative automated methods and approaches based on
   algorithms for artificial intelligence , data analysis , machine learning
   and deep learning in the food industry , which , in combination with
   modernized intelligent equipment , lead to sales growth , reduce product
   counterfeiting , increase the quality of the produced production , identify
   and track food products , evaluate their characteristics and qualities ,
   improve health and customer satisfaction , etc . with the development of
   automation , computer aided design , integration and management , the food
   industry reaches a peak and exponential progress . the paper aims to show
   verified practical applications of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in the
   food industry . in support of the thesis , developed and implemented
   technological solutions in sustainable industrial applications such as
   electronic noses , electronic palates , computer vision systems , the
   internet of things , and tools for identifying and distinguishing individual
   qualities of food products are presented . 2025 university of food
   technologies plovdiv
DE ai solutions; artificial intelligence; computer vision; electronic noses and
   tongues; food industry

---

UT 893
AR Zhou X/1, 2026, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, V20, P4071, DOI
   10.1007/s11694-026-04088-1
TI Artificial intelligence-driven food safety and quality control
AU Zhou X/1; Li Z; Huang X/4; Hu X/1; Li Z/2; Shi J/1; Zou X
TC 0
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2026
AB ensuring food safety and quality has emerged as a critical global priority ,
   driven by rapid growth of the world population and the increasing complexity
   of modern food production and distribution systems . as supply chains become
   more globalized and diversified , risks associated with contamination ,
   adulteration , and quality degradation have intensified , posing significant
   challenges to public health and international trade . conventional detection
   and monitoring methods , although scientifically established , often face
   limitations in efficiency , cost effectiveness , and adaptability to diverse
   contamination sources and dynamic production environments . in recent years
   , the emergence of deep learning as a transformative branch of artificial
   intelligence has opened new opportunities to address these limitations
   through automated data analysis and intelligent pattern recognition . this
   review provides a comprehensive synthesis of advances in artificial
   intelligence applications for food safety and quality control from 2019 to
   2025 , covering hazard detection , quality evaluation , and intelligent
   monitoring for real time risk prediction and decision support . by
   systematically analyzing representative methodologies , technical frameworks
   , and performance outcomes , the review underscores the advantages of
   artificial intelligence in achieving high throughput , non destructive , and
   precise analytical performance across complex food matrices . it also
   identifies persistent challenges , including data imbalance , limited
   interpretability , and environmental variability , which hinder large scale
   deployment and regulatory integration . the convergence of artificial
   intelligence with advanced sensing technologies , big data analytics , and
   domain expertise is expected to drive the evolution of next generation
   intelligent food safety systems , ultimately enabling more transparent ,
   adaptive , and sustainable approaches to postharvest processing , quality
   management , and global food security
DE artificial intelligence; explainable ai; food authenticity; hyperspectral
   imaging; pathogen detection; raman spectroscopy; risk prediction
ID advanced analytics; big data; chemical contamination; cost effectiveness;
   data quality; deep learning; food safety; health risks; information
   management; international trade; pattern recognition systems; population
   statistics; public health; public risks; quality control; quality
   management; safety engineering; explainable ai; food authenticity; food
   quality; food quality controls; food safety control; food safety;
   hyperspectral; pathogen detection; rapid growth; risk predictions; decision
   support systems

---

UT 894
AR Gaonkar SS, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1863 LNNS, P85, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-19182-3_7
TI Comparative Analysis of Performance on Deep Neural Networks Using GAN for
   Food Recognition and Nutritional Value Estimation
AU Gaonkar SS; Sangeetha J
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB calories are crucial for maintaining good health and preventing diseases
   including liver disease , cholesterol , cancer , and coronary heart disease
   . there are more overweight adults in the world compared to underweight
   persons . the most important risk factor , according to data from india , is
   abdominal obesity . thus , keeping track of dietary calories is crucial to
   living a healthy lifestyle . in today s fast growing digital era , deep
   learning is one of ai s subfields that has been in use in food related
   domain for decades . deep learning models provide cutting edge method for
   analyzing images that guarantees food challenges and finds solutions to
   issues , since their deeper networks are more adept at processing a wide
   range of image characteristics . in this paper , we suggest a system that
   utilizes gan based segmentation , and deep learning models inceptionv3 ,
   mobilenetv2 , densenet121 and vgg16 for recognition of food and prediction
   of food nutrients . this study also focuses on the comparative analysis of
   the four models with and without gan based segmentation for concluding on
   their performance . the performance is calculated on the basis of evaluation
   metrics comprising of accuracy , precision , recall and f1-score . the
   models trained with gan based segmentation approach achieved better
   performance in comparison to without gan based segmentation approach and
   among all these models , inceptionv3 outperformed achieving an accuracy of
   99.08 % and 98.32 % respectively in both these approaches
DE densenet121; generative adversarial network; inceptionv3; mobilenetv2;
   nutrients estimation; vgg16
ID cutting; diseases; learning systems; nutrients; nutrition; adversarial
   networks; comparative analyzes; densenet121; inceptionv3; learning models;
   mobilenetv2; neural networks; nutrient estimation; performance; vgg16; deep
   neural networks

---

UT 895
AR Onyeaka H, 2025, J AGRIC FOOD RES, V21, DOI 10.1016/j.jafr.2025.101895
TI Artificial intelligence in food system: Innovative approach to minimizing
   food spoilage and food waste
AU Onyeaka H; Akinsemolu A; Miri T; Nnaji ND; Duan K; Pang G; Tamasiga P;
   Khalid S; Al-Sharify ZT; Ugwa C
TC 47
SO J AGRIC FOOD RES
PY 2025
AB globally , about one third of all food produced for human consumption is
   lost or wasted , compounding issues of food security , economic inefficiency
   , and environmental harm . artificial intelligence ( ai ) presents
   transformative potential to mitigate these losses by enhancing food spoilage
   predictions and optimizing supply chain management . this paper examines the
   deployment of ai technologies such as machine learning models , predictive
   analytics , and advanced algorithm in predicting food spoilage with high
   accuracy , thereby reducing food waste substantially . key innovations
   highlighted include early detection systems for spoilage indicators ,
   dynamic algorithms for optimal storage conditions , and predictive models
   for waste forecasting based on real time environmental data . a review of
   case studies , including ai driven solutions from shelf engine and afresh ,
   shows a 14.8 % reduction in food waste per store , with an associated
   reduction of 26,705 tons of co2 emissions . similarly , ikea achieved a 30 %
   reduction in kitchen food waste within one year using ai powered monitoring
   systems . despite these successes , challenges in data collection , model
   training , and the integration of ai into existing food management systems
   persist . these include issues related to data quality , legacy system
   compatibility , and regulatory barriers . the paper concludes with
   actionable recommendations for future research , urging interdisciplinary
   collaboration to develop standardized data protocols , enhance real time
   monitoring capabilities , and address the ethical implications of ai
   adoption in the food sector . by advancing these strategies , ai s full
   potential in curbing global food waste can be realized
DE artificial intelligence; food spoilage; food waste; machine learning;
   predictive analytics

---

UT 896
AR Abdin HZE, 2025, INT CONF INNOV INTELL INFORMATICS COMPUT TECHNOL 3ICT, DOI
   10.1109/3ict68299.2025.11442102
TI Artificial Intelligence Based Forecasting of Food Waste in Institutional
   Settings for Sustainable Resource Planning
AU Abdin HZE; Taha R; Musleh T
TC 0
SO INT CONF INNOV INTELL INFORMATICS COMPUT TECHNOL 3ICT
PY 2025
AB food waste remains a persistent economic and environmental challenge in
   large scale institutional foodservice , where fluctuating daily demand
   complicates planning and often triggers overproduction driving unnecessary
   waste , higher operating costs , and environmental harm through resource
   depletion and greenhouse gas emissions . to address this , a datadriven
   forecasting approach were developed using supervised machine learning models
   random forest ( rf ) , extreme gradient boosting ( xgboost ) , k nearest
   neighbors ( knn ) , gradient boosting regressor ( gbr ) , support vector
   regression ( svr ) , and linear regression ( lr ) to predict daily food
   waste . the models outperform traditional statistical baselines and yield
   actionable insights that support staffing and procurement decisions .
   partial dependence analysis indicates that the number of meals served and
   prior waste levels are prominent predictors of future waste . across all
   candidates , rf delivers the strongest performance ( mae 4.71 kg , rmse 6.87
   kg , r 0.91 , mape 12.15 % ) , surpassing gradient boosting variants that
   remain competitive but exhibit larger error spikes ( gbr : mae 4.93 kg ,
   rmse 9.09 kg , r 0.84 , mape 12.52 % . xgboost : mae 5.31 kg , rmse 10.00 kg
   , r 0.80 , mape 12.71 % ) . knn attains a reasonable fit ( r 0.83 ) yet
   incurs higher absolute and percentage errors ( mae 6.29 kg . mape 16.31 % )
   , reflecting sensitivity to local density and scale . linear baselines ( lr
   and svr ) trail the ensemble methods ( both r 0.74. rmse 11.45 kg . mape
   12.6 13.1 % ) , underscoring the importance of capturing non linear
   interactions among operational drivers . integrating these predictive models
   with practical foodservice strategies yields a scalable , interpretable
   decision support system that enables institutional providers to minimize
   waste , optimize resource use , and advance sustainability through data
   informed planning . sustainability through smart , data informed planning
DE data science; economic and environmental challenge; supervised machine
   learning
ID behavioral research; food waste; greenhouse gasses; learning systems;
   natural resources management; nearest neighbor search; prediction models;
   support vector regression; economic challenges; environmental challenges;
   food waste; foodservices; gradient boosting; institutional setting; nearest-
   neighbour; random forests; supervised machine learning; support vector
   regressions; decision support systems

---

UT 897
AR Hou X, 2026, IET CONF PROC, V2025, P926, DOI 10.1049/icp.2025.4117
TI Application and optimization of deep learning algorithms in food microbial
   contamination detection
AU Hou X; Yan B
TC 0
SO IET CONF PROC
PY 2026
AB food microbial contamination is one of the primary factors contributing to
   food safety incidents . its high risk , concealment , and diversity pose
   significant challenges to traditional detection technologies . in recent
   years , with the development of artificial intelligence technology , deep
   learning has demonstrated exceptional capabilities in image recognition ,
   data analysis , and pattern classification , providing a new approach for
   efficient and intelligent detection of food microbial contamination . this
   paper systematically reviews the main application scenarios of deep learning
   algorithms in food microbial detection , including image based colony
   recognition , multimodal data fusion analysis , and reinforcement learning
   strategies in small sample environments . and explores the optimization
   directions of current algorithms in actual deployment from aspects such as
   model lightweighting , data annotation optimization , and system
   generalization capabilities . research indicates that deep learning
   technology not only enhances the accuracy and efficiency of microbial
   contamination detection but also possesses excellent scalability and
   engineering potential , providing strong support for the intelligent
   transformation of food safety supervision and early warning systems . 2025
   the institution of engineering and technology .
DE deep learning; food safety; image recognition; intelligent detection;
   microbial contamination; model optimization; multi-modal data fusion; small-
   sample learning
ID chemical contamination; classification ( of information ); contamination;
   data fusion; data handling; error detection; food microbiology; food safety;
   image analysis; image classification; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   safety engineering; deep learning; food safety; intelligent detection;
   microbial contamination; model optimization; multi-modal data fusion;
   optimizations; sample learning; small samples; small-sample learning; deep
   learning; image recognition

---

UT 898
AR Bolat Yilmaz A, 2025, NUTR, V17, DOI 10.3390/nu17243957
TI Guideline Compliance of Artificial Intelligence–Generated Diet Plans After
   Bariatric Surgery: A Cross-Sectional Simulation Comparing ChatGPT-4o,
   DeepSeek and Grok-3
AU Bolat Yilmaz A; Kenger EB; Ozlu Karahan T; Saglam D; Bas M
TC 0
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB background / objectives : artificial intelligence ( ai ) -based tools are
   increasingly being used in tailored nutrition management , and evaluating
   their compliance with guidelines is significant in clinically sensitive
   areas , including bariatric surgery . this study aimed to investigate the
   extent to which diet plans recommended by ai models in the early period
   following sleeve gastrectomy ( sg ) align with current clinical nutrition
   guidelines ( asmbs , aace / tos ) . methods : a total of 360 menu plans were
   generated using three ai platforms chatgpt 4o , deepseek v3 , and grok 3-for
   40 simulated patients ( 20 females , 20 males . bmi 3245 kg / m2 ) across
   three postoperative stages : liquid ( day 5 ) , puree ( day 16 ) , and solid
   ( day 35 ) . the energy and nutrient contents of the menus were analyzed
   using bebis 8.1. an experienced dietitian assessed compliance with the
   guidelines using a structured checklist . nutrient intakes and guideline
   compliance scores were examined using within patient friedman tests followed
   by bonferroni adjusted pairwise comparisons . results : chatgpt 4o
   demonstrated the highest overall compliance scores , particularly in the
   liquid and pureed phases , while deepseek produced higher values for several
   micronutrients . all models showed substantial gaps in essential
   postoperative recommendations , most notably thiamine and multivitamin
   supplementation . conclusions : although llms can generate partially
   guideline concordant postoperative diet plans , they consistently omit
   several critical elements of bariatric nutrition care . these findings
   indicate that llm generated menus may serve as supportive educational tools
   , and diet planning must be performed under the guidance of a specialist
   dietitian . this simulation does not assess clinical safety , efficacy , or
   patient outcomes and should not be used as a substitute for dietitian led
   postoperative nutrition care
DE large language models; postoperative nutrition; sleeve gastrectomy
ID adult; artificial intelligence; bariatric surgery; cross-sectional studies;
   diet; female; generative artificial intelligence; guideline adherence;
   humans; male; middle aged; multivitamin; thiamine; adult; article;
   artificial intelligence chatbot; bariatric surgery; chatgpt; checklist;
   clinical nutrition; comparative study; cross-sectional study; deepseek;
   diet; diet supplementation; female; grok 3; human; large language model;
   liquid food; macronutrient; male; nutrient content; nutrient intake;
   practice guideline; pureed food; simulation; sleeve gastrectomy; solid;
   artificial intelligence; generative artificial intelligence; middle aged;
   protocol compliance

---

UT 899
AR Deng P, 2025, ENV POLLUT, V384, DOI 10.1016/j.envpol.2025.126911
TI Application of a machine learning-based food risk framework to assess the
   public dietary risk of cadmium in China
AU Deng P; Hu X; Mu L; Yu F; Luo L
TC 2
SO ENV POLLUT
PY 2025
AB the daunting challenges of heavy metal pollution and soil acidification
   seriously threaten human health and the development of sustainable
   agriculture worldwide . however , effective approaches for identifying and
   controlling public health risks in a large geographic space are urgently
   needed . here , we propose a proof of concept machine learning based food
   risk ( mfr ) framework and accurately recognize that soil ph is the key
   driver affecting cadmium accumulation in wheat and rice at the national
   scale . from the 1980s to the 2000s , under soil acidification , the dietary
   risk of cadmium through rice and wheat increased by approximately 10 % in
   central south china and east china . geospatial trade increased the
   uncertainty of risk . in contrast , the mitigation of soil acidification
   alleviated cadmium accumulation in crops and the associated public dietary
   risks from the 2000s to the 2010s . the dietary risk of cadmium is 1.61 (
   rice ) and 1.59 ( wheat ) times greater for children than for adults .
   because the dietary risks of cadmium in rice are 3.38 ( adults ) and 3.41 (
   children ) times greater than those for wheat , grain based dietary
   structure adjustment is a possible pathway for reducing public health risks
   . taken together , soil based solutions for controlling soil acidification
   and optimizing dietary structures are large geospatial strategies for
   alleviating the public dietary risk of heavy metals ( e . g . , cadmium )
DE food security; machine learning; public dietary risks; soil acidification;
   sustainable agriculture
ID cadmium; china; diet; dietary exposure; food contamination; humans; machine
   learning; oryza; risk assessment; soil; soil pollutants; triticum; china;
   acidification; agricultural pollution; cadmium; chemical contamination; food
   security; food supply; grain ( agricultural product ); health risks; machine
   learning; nutrition; public health; public risks; risk assessment; soil
   pollution; soils; cadmium; heavy metal; cadmium; food risks; food security;
   geospatial; heavy metals pollution; machine learning; public dietary risk;
   public health risks; risk frameworks; soil acidifications; sustainable
   agriculture; acidification; alternative agriculture; cadmium; dietary
   intake; food security; health risk; machine learning; pollution effect;
   pollution exposure; risk assessment; soil pollution; soil quality;
   acidification; article; china; controlled study; dietary intake; dietary
   risk; human; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry; machine learning;
   nonhuman; pollution; principal component analysis; public health; risk
   assessment; soil acidification; wheat; chemistry; china; diet; dietary
   exposure; food contamination; oryza; risk assessment; soil; soil pollutant;
   learning systems

---

UT 900
AR Gunapati SNR, 2026, ACS OMEGA, V11, P29979, DOI 10.1021/acsomega.6c01238
TI Design of Multifunctional Bioactive Peptides for Potential Application in
   Food Packaging: A Machine-Learning-Integrated Optimization Framework
AU Gunapati SNR; Gunaseelan SK; Dutta A; Mitra D
TC 0
SO ACS OMEGA
PY 2026
AB multifunctional bioactive peptides with antioxidant , antifungal , and
   antibacterial properties can be highly effective for the development of
   active packaging systems , thereby playing a pivotal role in alleviating
   foodborne diseases . with peptide design being a combinatorial problem , it
   is an extremely arduous process to screen the entire sequence space and
   discover peptides with multifunctional properties . in this study , a
   computational framework that integrates machine learning and optimization
   for the design of multifunctional bioactive peptides was proposed . three
   machine learning based binary classification models were developed to screen
   antioxidant , antifungal , and antibacterial peptides , respectively .
   accuracies for models 1 , 2 , and 3 were found to be 82.37 % , 95.49 % , and
   96.75 % , respectively . these models are then incorporated into an
   optimization framework to design new bioactive peptides with antioxidant ,
   antifungal , and antibacterial properties . analysis of amino acid
   compositions for these newly generated peptides revealed that amino acids
   that are characteristic of antioxidant , antifungal , and antibacterial
   peptides are present in significant proportions in these newly generated
   peptide sequences . this shows that the proposed computational framework
   indeed generates peptides with multifunctional properties , thereby
   indicating their potential applications in food packaging . a free to use
   executable tool that can expedite the design of such multifunctional
   bioactive peptides has also been developed . 2026 the authors . published by
   american chemical society .

---

UT 901
AR Srivastava A, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1906 LNNS, P360, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-20994-8_30
TI Thrive-Dine: A Machine Learning Powered Diet Recall App for Personalized
   Nutrition Management
AU Srivastava A; Jain A/3; Gupta H/1; Tyagi H; Singh G/1
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB in this research work , we propose thrive dine , an artificial intelligence
   based mobile application for personalized nutrition care . this application
   implements using machine learning algorithms such as , genetic algorithms to
   create personalized diet charts and reinforcement learning to adaptively
   adjust meals to provide user specific recommendations based on user data
   such as age , gender , weight , diet , and activity level . the most
   essential technologies that have been integrated in thrive dine are fastapi
   for efficient backend computation , streamlit for dynamic visualizations of
   data , flutter for adaptive front end , and spring boot for easy handling of
   databases . the most prominent feature of thrive dine is its dynamic meal
   recalculation functionality , which recalculates the future meals
   dynamically when it senses ' cheat meals ' in order to ensure that the user
   is never left hungry but stays on track . previously , personalized diet
   recommendation system using machine learning was designed mainly with
   individual nutritional advice and overall well being . in this project , the
   machine learning model is built for the personalized health and nutrition
   recommendations by using different input parameters . thrive dine also
   addresses the limitations of current applications like chatdiet , whose
   personalization is sensor wearable based , and other apps , which does not
   address meal planning personalization but only food analysis . by converging
   ai and machine learning , thrive dine completes the gap between scientific
   nutrition counseling and consumer access . future growth will involve
   leveraging wearable technology , growing ai algorithms , and adding
   gamification to continue increasing user participation and health benefit
DE ai diet plans; fastapi; genetic algorithm; llm-powered meal planning;
   machine learning; nutritional tracking; personalized nutrition;
   reinforcement learning
ID data visualization; e-learning; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   nutrition; recommender systems; wearable computers; wearable sensors; ai
   diet plan; diet plan; fastapi; llm-powered meal planning; machine learning;
   mobile applications; nutritional tracking; personalizations; personalized
   nutrition; reinforcement learnings; genetic algorithms; reinforcement
   learning

---

UT 902
AR Chopra M, 2026, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V85, DOI 10.1007/s11042-026-21209-6
TI A synergistic hybrid approach for calorie estimation using multi-view food
   images and deep learning-based segmentation and classification
AU Chopra M; Purwar A
TC 0
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2026
AB accurate calorie estimation from food images is a critical yet challenging
   task in automated dietary monitoring systems . this paper presents a
   synergistic hybrid approach for calorie estimation using multi view food
   images , integrating enhanced segmentation , classification , and portion
   size estimation through deep learning techniques . the proposed framework
   combines the enhanced squirrel search algorithm ( essa ) for optimized
   segmentation and a convolutional neural network ( cnn ) for food
   classification and feature extraction . to improve portion size accuracy , a
   grid based superimposition and perspective transformation technique is
   applied on both top and side view images , enabling scale factor computation
   and volumetric estimation . the system is evaluated on benchmark datasets
   uec food101 and nutrition5k , achieving a mean relative error of 3.95 % in
   calorie prediction . this work addresses critical limitations of single view
   and classification only models by incorporating multi angle geometry and
   feature synergy . the results demonstrate the potential of the proposed
   system for real world dietary assessment applications , offering improved
   accuracy , scalability , and robustness across diverse food types
DE automatic dietary assessment; food calorie; food recognition; volume
   estimation
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; image classification; image segmentation; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; nutrition; automatic dietary assessment; calorie
   estimations; dietary assessments; food calorie; food image; food
   recognition; hybrid approach; learning-based segmentation; multi-views;
   volume estimations; image enhancement

---

UT 903
AR Gavai AK, 2026, FOOD HUMANIT, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2026.101132
TI Agentic artificial intelligence in food science: From automation to
   adaptation
AU Gavai AK; Heringa J
TC 0
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2026
AB this review synthesizes recent research on the emergence of agentic
   artificial intelligence in food , agricultural , and nutrition systems .
   while ai tools are increasingly deployed across domains from crop monitoring
   and processing to personalized nutrition and supply chain optimization ,
   current systems remain predominantly task based , predictive , and narrow in
   scope . recent scholarship highlights limitations in contextual reasoning ,
   multi objective decision making , and the integration of ethical or
   governance constraints . this review organizes the literature across
   agricultural production , food processing , nutrition and health , food
   safety , and sustainability governance , and assesses how emerging agentic
   ai architectures may address existing shortcomings . illustrative examples
   from food fermentation and personalized nutrition demonstrate persistent
   challenges when ai systems attempt to operate in real world contexts
   characterized by social , ecological , and institutional complexity . the
   review concludes with implications for transparency , interoperability , and
   responsible governance , emphasizing the need for ai systems capable of
   deliberation , adaptive reasoning , and alignment with human and societal
   values
DE agentic artificial intelligence; context-aware decision making; digital
   agriculture; food processing automation; food systems; personalized
   nutrition; sustainability and ethics

---

UT 904
AR Musthafa Sheriff IM/1, 2025, AUST J ELECTR ELECTRON ENG, DOI
   10.1080/1448837X.2025.2586876
TI Blockchain-based QR code and recurrent convolution neural network for food
   supply chain maintenance
AU Musthafa Sheriff IM/1; Aravindhar DJ
TC 0
SO AUST J ELECTR ELECTRON ENG
PY 2025
AB food is one of the most essential aspects of human survival on earth . food
   security is very critical for citizens to access and acquire food . one of
   the crucial criteria regarding the food supply chain is the safe maintenance
   and good quality of the products . although food standards approve packaged
   foods , enhancing organic food supply chains is always advisable . the
   proposed work utilizes a blockchain based recurrent convolutional neural
   network to monitor the food supply chain at various stages . the food
   products are evaluated using a user friendly front end design through the
   web and qr codes . the communication tokens have been assessed using the
   elliptical encrypted integration scheme . each registered user is assigned a
   key using ai technology . the information regarding food products can be
   converted into digital form using the proposed model . at the same time ,
   the data can also be retrieved if required . the hidden information that
   affects the quality of food products can be explicitly viewed with the help
   of a qr code . using the proposed method , manual errors can be minimized ,
   which in turn helps maintain up to date information with minimal losses .
   the results have been tabulated and depicted using graphical representations
   . the results show that the proposed method has a shorter response time than
   the other existing algorithms . the laboratory s legal plea can be obtained
   using the shapley additive explanation technology . the accuracy and
   efficiency of the proposed method surpass those of traditional methods .
   2025 engineers australia .
DE blockchain; elliptical encrypted integration; food supply chains; qr code;
   shapley additive explanation
ID chains; codes ( symbols ); convolution; convolutional neural networks; food
   additives; food security; food supply; supply chains; sustainable
   development; blockchain; convolution neural network; elliptical encrypted
   integration; ellipticals; food security; food supply chain; human survival;
   qr codes; shapley; shapley additive explanation; blockchain

---

UT 905
AR Sharma P/1, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P611,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00038-2
TI Robotics and automation in food processing using artificial intelligence and
   machine learning
AU Sharma P/1; Agarwal G; Bisht A; Kukreja N
TC 1
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB the basic role of society is to provide that everyone has enough to eat . in
   view of the expected growth in the world s population by another two billion
   people by 2050 , the chief objective of the food industry has been
   increasing the supply to feed that population . however , the continuously
   worsening effects of climate change demand that we do not merely produce as
   much as possible but also decrease as much as possible waste . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) and robotics are coming as big influencers that have a
   potential to transform the food supply chain and reduce loss or waste in
   food . a google and macarthur foundation s joint study estimated that ai
   could save the food industry up to $ 127 billion a year by cutting waste
   throughout the supply chain
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food industry; food safety; machine
   learning; robotics; supply chain
ID accident prevention; deep learning; food industry; food processing; food
   safety; food supply; intelligent robots; learning systems; population
   statistics; artificial intelligence learning; deep learning; food
   industries; food supply chain; food safety; google+; machine learning; world
   population; supply chains

---

UT 906
AR Mwape MC, 2025, THERM SCI ENG PROG, V60, DOI 10.1016/j.tsep.2025.103258
TI Modeling and optimization of energy efficiency and product quality in staple
   food roasting using machine learning: A case study on cassava processing
AU Mwape MC; Kulig B; Nurkhoeriyati T; Roman F; Parmar A; Emmambux NM; Hensel O
TC 5
SO THERM SCI ENG PROG
PY 2025
AB energy efficient food processing techniques , including roasting could help
   reduce post harvest losses which currently exceed 30 % annually . roasting
   enhances food dehydrated for extended shelf life and quality . in most
   developing countries , roasting is drudgery , nutrient altering ,
   unsustainable and mostly woodfuel powered . lack of optimized important
   process factors such as temperature and agitation speed , presents a
   significant challenge in achieving process and energy efficiency , therefore
   this research sought to bridge these gaps by modeling and optimizing the
   temperature / rate of rise ( ror ) and agitation speed at standard quality
   of the roast using fresh cassava processing into cassava pulp as a case
   study . the machine learning ( ml ) -integrated design . i optimal response
   surface methodology ( rsm ) and random forest ( rf python ) techniques with
   two factors ( temperature ( 90250 c and agitation speed 1050 rpm ) and seven
   responses , were used for experimental design , modeling , optimization ,
   prediction of design parameters for real life application in a solar pv
   roaster and model validation . external validation was reinforced with
   python driven mann whitney you , levene and bland altman tests . the optimum
   parameters where find to be . 130 c roasting temperature with 21.08 c
   min1-ror , 40 rpm , 22.27 min , 1.37 kwh kg gari1-specific energy
   consumption ( sec ) , color-( 74.55-l * , 2.97-a * , 23.98-b * ) ,
   3.40-swelling index-( si ) , and 1.36 mm texture . the models predicted the
   real life solar pv roasting system design parameters with accuracy above 90
   % , mean absolute error ( mae 0.99 ) and showed significant sec savings of
   81.40 % against the 7.37 kwh kg gari1 woodfuel based cookstove . this
   scalable , data driven solution could be applied to design and develop more
   efficient and high quality roasting systems . future studies should focus on
   generalizing with different staple foods
DE data-driven design; energy efficiency; i-optimal designs; machine learning
   modeling; post-harvest; roasting prediction models
ID gluing; problem oriented languages; pulp refining; agitation speed; data-
   driven design; energy; i-optimal design; machine learning models; optimal
   design; post-harvest; prediction modeling; roasting prediction model; staple
   food; integrated circuit design

---

UT 907
AR Reitano M, 2025, FOOD POLIC, V137, DOI 10.1016/j.foodpol.2025.102983
TI A systematic review on the impact of Artificial Intelligence in the agri-
   food supply chain
AU Reitano M; Segovia MS; Nayga RM Jr
TC 15
SO FOOD POLIC
PY 2025
AB with a growing global population and escalating concerns over food security
   , artificial intelligence ( ai ) has emerged as a transformative technology
   capable of optimizing agricultural processes and improving resource
   efficiency and security . this systematic review explores the transformative
   potential of artificial intelligence in the whole agri food supply chain ,
   focusing on its implications for agricultural productivity and consumer
   behavior . using the prisma guideline , a total of 64 articles were selected
   to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of research on
   artificial intelligence applications within this domain . unlike previous
   reviews , this study leverages cluster analysis to categorize research
   findings into four main themes : 1 ) adoption of ai technologies in
   agriculture , 2 ) applications of ai in the intermediary management of the
   supply chain , 3 ) consumer perceptions and acceptance of ai powered food
   innovations , and 4 ) the role of ai in precision nutrition and personalized
   health management . the review identifies key benefits of ai , including
   enhanced decision making capabilities , improved supply chain transparency ,
   and the facilitation of personalized nutrition strategies . it also
   highlights significant challenges such as technological accessibility ,
   knowledge gaps among agricultural stakeholders , consumer skepticism , and
   notable methodological limitations in the existing research . the insights
   presented in this review contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of
   the ai s role in shaping the future of the agri food supply chain and
   provide a foundation for policymakers , researchers , and industry
   stakeholders to develop strategies that maximize the societal and economic
   benefits of ai integration in the agri food supply chain
DE agri-food sector; artificial intelligence ( ai ); consumer perception;
   intermediary management; precision nutrition; technology adoption
ID agricultural production; artificial intelligence; consumption behavior; food
   security; literature review; technology adoption

---

UT 908
AR Swadimath UC, 2025, SUSTAIN AGRIC APPL LANG MODEL, P1, DOI
   10.2174/9798898810184125010004
TI Leveraging Artificial Intelligence in India's Food Processing Industries:
   Advancing Sustainable Agriculture through Large Language Models
AU Swadimath UC; Acharya S
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN AGRIC APPL LANG MODEL
PY 2025
AB industrialisation and technological advancements are the key factors in a
   country s economic development . with the industry 4.0 revolution ,
   technology has given rise to inventions like artificial intelligence ( ai )
   , the internet of things ( iot ) , blockchain technology , and machine
   learning ( ml ) . these technological tools have been adopted in the key
   economic sectors , namely agriculture , industry , and service . agriculture
   is a predominant sector in india s economic development . the share of the
   primary cultivation sector in india s economy was 18 % in 2022-23. changes
   in demand , lifestyles , and food habits have led to the development of food
   processing industries . the food processing industry is considered a sunrise
   industry in india . food processing refers to a set of methods that are used
   to convert agricultural products into value added products by retaining
   their nutritional value for consumption . it is an act of producing raw
   vegetables and seafood products that are transformed into consumable
   products with the help of labor , technology , and research based
   information . artificial intelligence ( ai ) or robotic intelligence ( ri )
   refers to the integration of intelligence into machines that can operate
   with vision system that can detect product defects , control quality ,
   differentiate products , and perform rejection during the production process
   . ai can be defined as an injection of humanity s brain power into
   appliances / instruments that are programmed to imagine and act like human
   beings , which is an outcome of scientific research and technological
   knowledge . the application of ai in the indian food processing industry has
   become indispensable due to the issues of chemicals found in processed spice
   products produced by companies like mdh and everest . production of food
   products is a crucial factor in confronting the expectations of consumers
   and also due to the popularity of ready to eat foods as consumers have
   adapted themselves to the fast paced working lifestyles . ai or robots are
   used at every stage of food production . the food processing industry ranks
   fourth in terms of the adoption of ai technology to maintain hygiene and
   control the quality of raw ingredients . the use of ai has become vital in
   the meat and dairy industries . machine handling can help in identifying any
   damaged or contaminated processed food products and remove them from the
   production line . ai can help in reducing postharvest losses and perishable
   wastages and increase the shelf life of processed food products . the
   government of india has been encouraging the development of food processing
   industries . to support this development , it has also established food
   parks . the food parks have good warehousing facilities , rainwater
   harvesting , and cold storage facilities . with the availability of these
   infrastructural facilities and ai in these food parks , there is scope for
   food processing industries . the chapter examines the application of
   artificial intelligence in the food processing industries of india . 2026 ,
   2025 bentham science publishers
DE agro-processing; artificial intelligence ( ai ); food parks; food processing
   industries ( fpis ); technology
ID agricultural economics; agricultural machinery; agriculture; chemical
   contamination; engineering research; food chemistry; food ingredients; food
   microbiology; food processing; food safety; industrial economics; machine
   learning; nutrition; processed foods; agro-processing; artificial
   intelligence; economic development; food park; food processing industry;
   industrialization; language model; sustainable agriculture; technology;
   learning systems

---

UT 909
AR Bianco R, 2025, NUTR, V17, DOI 10.3390/nu17132196
TI 2D Prediction of the Nutritional Composition of Dishes from Food Images:
   Deep Learning Algorithm Selection and Data Curation Beyond the Nutrition5k
   Project
AU Bianco R; Coluccia S; Marinoni M; Falcon A; Fiori F; Serra G; Ferraroni M;
   Edefonti V; Parpinel M
TC 3
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB background / objectives : deep learning ( dl ) has shown strong potential in
   analyzing food images , but few studies have directly predicted mass ,
   energy , and macronutrient content from images . in addition to the
   importance of high quality data , differences in country specific food
   composition databases ( fcdbs ) can hinder model generalization . methods :
   we assessed the performance of several standard dl models using four ground
   truth datasets derived from nutrition5k the largest imagenutrition dataset
   with ~5000 complex us cafeteria dishes . in light of developing an italian
   dietary assessment tool , these datasets varied by fcdb alignment ( italian
   vs . us ) and data curation ( ingredientmass correction and frame filtering
   on the test set ) . we evaluated combinations of four feature extractors [
   resnet 50 ( r50 ) , resnet 101 ( r101 ) , inceptionv3 ( incv3 ) , and vision
   transformer b 16 ( vit b 16 ) ] with two regression networks ( 2+1 and 2+2 )
   , using incv3_2+2 as the benchmark . descriptive statistics ( percentages of
   agreement , unweighted cohen s kappa , and blandaltman plots ) and standard
   regression metrics were used to compare predicted and ground truth
   nutritional composition . dishes mispredicted by 7 algorithms were analyzed
   separately . results : r50 , r101 , and vit b 16 consistently outperformed
   the benchmark across all datasets . specifically , when replacing it with
   these top algorithms , reductions in median mean absolute percentage errors
   were 6.2 % for mass , 6.4 % for energy , 12.3 % for fat , and 33.1 % and
   40.2 % for protein and carbohydrates . ingredientmass correction
   substantially improved prediction metrics ( 642 % when considering the top
   algorithms ) , while frame filtering had a more limited effect ( < 3 % ) .
   performance was consistently poor across most models for complex salads ,
   chicken based or eggs based dishes , and western inspired breakfasts .
   conclusions : the r101 and vit b 16 architectures will be prioritized in
   future analyzes , where ingredientmass correction and automated frame
   filtering methods will be considered
DE 2d prediction of nutritional composition; deep learning; dietary assessment
   tools; energy prediction; food image recognition; frame filtering;
   macronutrients prediction; mass prediction; nutrition5k; portion size
   correction
ID algorithms; databases factual; deep learning; food analysis; humans;
   nutritive value; carbohydrate; food ingredient; monosaccharide; protein;
   analytical error; article; backpropagation; caloric intake; carbohydrate
   intake; chicken meat; comparative study; controlled study; data quality;
   deep learning; egg; fat intake; feature extraction; food composition; image
   analysis; information processing; machine learning algorithm; machine
   prediction model; macronutrient; nutritional assessment; nutritional value;
   prediction; problem solving; process optimization; protein intake; residual
   neural network; salad; videorecording; western diet; algorithm; factual
   database; food analysis; human; nutritional value; procedures

---

UT 910
AR Olawale RA, 2025, J STORED PROD RES, V112, DOI 10.1016/j.jspr.2025.102611
TI Sustainable farming with machine learning solutions for minimizing food
   waste
AU Olawale RA; Olawumi MA; Oladapo BI
TC 23
SO J STORED PROD RES
PY 2025
AB this research explores the application of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning ( ml ) in mitigating post harvest losses and reducing food
   waste within the agricultural supply chain . our objective is to rigorously
   quantify the effectiveness of these technologies at various stages of food
   handling , from production to consumption , to improve food security and
   sustainability . the study employs a mixed methods approach , integrating
   quantitative data from iot sensors deployed in field studies and qualitative
   insights from stakeholders , including farmers and retailers . the study s
   findings reveal that ai driven cold storage interventions led to a 60 %
   reduction in post harvest losses for perishable items . meanwhile , ml
   optimized logistics resulted in a 20 % decrease in transportation related
   food waste . despite these improvements , challenges remain in accurately
   predicting market demands , occasionally leading to overproduction . this
   highlights the need for further refinement in ai algorithms to handle market
   volatility . integrating ai and ml in agricultural practices offers
   substantial benefits , demonstrating the potential to transform food supply
   chain management . however , additional improvements are required to
   maximize accuracy and efficiency . future applications of the models include
   real time adaptive logistics , blockchain integration for traceability , and
   ai powered predictive demand forecasting
DE agricultural supply chain; artificial intelligence; food waste reduction;
   machine learning; post-harvest losses; sustainable agriculture
ID agricultural supply chains; artificial intelligence learning; food handling;
   food waste; food waste reduction; machine learning; post-harvest loss;
   sustainable agriculture; sustainable farming; waste reduction

---

UT 911
AR Takefuji Y, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V157, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104853
TI Reevaluating feature importance in machine learning for food authentication:
   Addressing bias and enhancing methodological rigor
AU Takefuji Y
TC 0
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : bhat et al . ( 2025 ) highlight the significant role of
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) in food
   authentication through advanced algorithms that analyze large datasets for
   patterns associated with food fraud . objective : this paper aims to
   critically assess the approach of bhat et al . , with a specific focus on
   model based feature importance and the biases related to traditional machine
   learning methods . methods : the paper distinguishes between machine
   learning target predictions and feature importances , advocating for the
   rigorous application of robust statistical techniques , including spearman s
   correlation and p values , to accurately reveal genuine associations among
   variables . results : the analysis emphasizes the necessity for researchers
   to comprehend the foundational principles of ai and ml to avoid
   misapplication of these technologies . conclusion : the paper recommends
   integrating both nonparametric and nonlinear methods to effectively reduce
   bias and improve the reliability of feature importance assessments in food
   authentication
DE artificial intelligence; bias assessment; feature importance; food
   authentication; machine learning; robust analysis; statistical methods
ID contrastive learning; artificial intelligence learning; bias assessment;
   feature importance; food authentications; large datasets; machine learning
   methods; machine learning; model-based opc; robust analysis; target feature;
   adversarial machine learning

---

UT 912
AR Femimol R, 2025, INNOV FOOD SCI EMERG TECHNOL, V102, DOI
   10.1016/j.ifset.2025.104019
TI A comprehensive review of blockchain with artificial intelligence
   integration for enhancing food safety and quality control
AU Femimol R; Joseph LN
TC 9
SO INNOV FOOD SCI EMERG TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB food safety and quality control are some of the biggest hurdles in today s
   global food supply chain , with complex networks , contamination risks , and
   limited transparency undermining efficiency . this review introduces a novel
   hybrid framework that uniquely integrates blockchain technology , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , and the internet of things ( iot ) to address these
   persistent issues . an analysis of 525 studies conducted between 2019 and
   has led to the selection of 70 papers that focus on the review of ai
   applications utilizing blockchain technology . the proposed model does not
   take the conventional route in that it solves critical issues regarding
   scalability , computational requirements , and integration complexities with
   iot based data collection and energy efficient algorithms applied in supply
   chain logistic processes and operations . this method enhances the real time
   processing of supply chain logistics while respecting privacy and conforming
   to standard practices . the model promotes unprecedented transparency ,
   trust , and operational efficiency in food safety by integrating ai ,
   blockchain , and iot , thus generating new and scalable solutions to protect
   consumer interests and safety in logistics . this combination improves the
   trust of consumers also , enhances the safety of food and logistics ,
   improving novel safety solutions for food
DE artificial intelligence; blockchain technology; food safety; internet of
   things; quality control; supply chain traceability
ID blockchain; blockchain technology; contamination risks; food quality
   controls; food safety control; food supply chain; food safety; intelligence
   integration; supply chain logistics; supply chain traceability

---

UT 913
AR Yao S/1, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V501, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.147540
TI Advancing smart detection of pesticide residues in food through machine
   learning-enhanced vibrational spectroscopy techniques
AU Yao S/1; Yu T; Ramos AFV; Zhang Z; Rodriguez-Saona L
TC 2
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB the widespread use of over 1000 pesticides globally has raised significant
   concerns regarding their residues in food , which can pose substantial
   health risks through consumption or environmental exposure . traditional
   methods such as high performance liquid chromatography ( hplc ) and gas
   chromatographymass spectrometry ( gcms ) , while effective , are often time
   consuming , labor intensive , and require specialized equipment , prompting
   the need for more rapid , non destructive , and cost effective alternatives
   . this review explores recent breakthroughs in the smart detection of
   pesticide residues in food , focusing on the integration of vibrational
   spectroscopy techniques , specifically mir , nir , raman and surface
   enhanced raman spectroscopy ( sers ) with machine learning ( ml ) . the
   application of ml enhances the diagnostic power of vibrational spectroscopy
   by enabling automated , user friendly analysis that eliminates the need for
   complex spectral interpretation . furthermore , recent innovations in
   nanomaterial innovations , smartphone assistants , open ai analysis , and
   miniaturization techniques significantly advanced the accessibility ,
   precision , and operational efficiency of pesticide detection . these
   developments not only improve the accuracy and speed of pesticide residue
   screening but also pave the way for smart , portable , and widely applicable
   solutions to enhance food safety and safeguard public health
DE miniaturization techniques; ml; open-ai; pesticides; smart screening;
   vibrational spectroscopy
ID food contamination; machine learning; pesticide residues; spectrum analysis
   raman; chemical contamination; chemical detection; cost effectiveness;
   diagnosis; food safety; gas chromatography; health risks; learning systems;
   machine learning; mass spectrometry; miniature instruments; raman
   spectroscopy; screening; spectrum analysis; vibrational spectroscopy;
   microrna; nanomaterial; pesticide; pesticide residue; environmental
   exposure; gaschromatography-mass spectrometry; high performance liquid
   chromatography; labour-intensive; machine learning; miniaturization
   techniques; open-ai; pesticide residue; smart detection; smart screening;
   environmental exposure; food safety; health hazard; high performance liquid
   chromatograph; high performance liquid chromatography; human; machine
   learning; mass fragmentography; miniaturization; pesticide residue; review;
   smartphone; surface enhanced raman spectroscopy; velocity; vibrational
   spectroscopy; devices; food contamination; procedures; raman spectrometry;
   pesticides

---

UT 914
AR Benfenati D, 2025, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V239, DOI
   10.1016/j.compag.2025.110847
TI Data centric Artificial Intelligence for agrifood domain: A systematic
   mapping study
AU Benfenati D; Amalfitano D; Russo C; Tommasino C; Rinaldi AM
TC 7
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2025
AB the agrifood sector is progressively utilizing artificial intelligence to
   address challenges related to food production , environmental sustainability
   , and resource efficiency . however , the quality , availability and
   integration of data continue to represent significant obstacles in the
   development of reliable ai systems . the paradigm of data centric artificial
   intelligence entails a shift in focus from solely optimizing models to
   prioritizing the enhancement of data quality , thus facilitating the
   development of robust ai solutions . to investigate the adoption of this
   paradigm , we conducted a systematic mapping study of data centric
   artificial intelligence approaches in the agrifood domain over the past
   decade . our review process identified 31 primary studies that employed data
   centric artificial intelligence techniques in areas such as crop monitoring
   , pest detection , soil quality assessment , and yield optimization . the
   findings of our mapping reveal a growing use of methods such as data
   augmentation , dataset creation , and data quality enhancement . however ,
   we also highlighted limited dataset standardization and challenges to
   reproducibility . the objective of this review is to provide a comprehensive
   overview of the latest advancements and prospects in data centric artificial
   intelligence for agricultural and food industry applications
DE agriculture; agri-food; data-centric artificial intelligence; systematic
   literature review; systematic mapping study
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; data accuracy; data quality; data
   reduction; smart agriculture; agri-food; agri-food sectors; data-centric;
   data quality; data-centric artificial intelligence; environmental resources;
   environmental sustainability; food production; systematic literature review;
   systematic mapping studies; artificial intelligence; crop yield;
   environmental monitoring; food industry; food production; literature review;
   soil quality; standardization; agriculture

---

UT 915
AR Pan M, 2025, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V46, P18, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20250717-144
TI Research Progress on Nanozyme-Based Sensing Technologies Integrated with
   Machine Learning in Food Quality and Safety Detection;
   [集成机器学习的纳米酶传感技术在食品质量与安全检测研究进展]
AU Pan M; Li H/7; Hu X/3; Wang H/7; Gao M; Ren K; Li S/3; Wang S/4
TC 0
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2025
AB efficient and sensitive detection technologies are crucial for the precise
   monitoring of food quality and safety . nanozymes , owing to their superior
   catalytic activity , can significantly enhance detection signals , thereby
   effectively improving the sensitivity and accuracy of analytical methods .
   however , the complexity of food matrices and the multi dimensional nature
   of spectral data may compromise the reliability of detection results .
   machine learning algorithms possess robust data processing and analysis
   capabilities , enabling in depth mining and interpretation of complex
   detection data , thus effectively improving the accuracy , sensitivity , and
   efficiency of analytical techniques . this article presents a comprehensive
   review of the applications of nanozyme based sensing technologies integrated
   with machine learning in the field of food quality and safety detection . it
   particularly highlights the technical advantages of this integration in the
   detection of food hazards , quality , and authenticity . the combination of
   machine learning with nanozyme based sensing technologies not only enhances
   the detection precision and efficiency but also provides solid technical
   support for advancing food safety detection toward intelligent and high
   throughput systems .
DE food quality monitoring; food safety detection; machine learning; nanozyme-
   based sensing
ID data handling; efficiency; food safety; intelligent systems; learning
   algorithms; machine learning; efficient detection; food quality; food
   quality and safeties; food quality monitoring; food safety detection; food
   safety; machine learning; nanozyme-based sensing; quality monitoring;
   sensing technology; learning systems

---

UT 916
AR Yang L, 2026, CRIT REV ANAL CHEM, DOI 10.1080/10408347.2026.2624684
TI Research and Application of Artificial Intelligence in Food Flavour Analysis
AU Yang L; Yang S/4; Tian H; Sun B
TC 0
SO CRIT REV ANAL CHEM
PY 2026
AB in recent years , the combination of food flavor and artificial intelligence
   has become increasingly frequent . the combination of food flavor and
   artificial intelligence has more advantages compared to traditional
   analytical methods . it can not only predict food flavor , but also improve
   food production efficiency . it has been widely utilized in various aspects
   of the food industry . this review introduces the concepts of artificial
   intelligence and flavor , and comprehensively discusses several methods of
   combining artificial intelligence and food flavor in flavor analysis . in
   addition , the application of machine learning and deep learning in food
   flavor was introduced in detail , and finally , the progress and challenges
   brought by the combination of flavor analysis technology and artificial
   intelligence technology were summarized
DE artificial intelligence; flavor analysis; food flavor; machine learning
ID deep learning; flavors; food industry; analytical method; artificial
   intelligence technologies; flavor analysis; food flavors; food industries;
   food production; machine learning; production efficiency; research and
   application; learning systems

---

UT 917
AR Ozoglu O, 2025, IMPACT ARTIF INTELL HEAL IND VOL 2 CLIN APPL, P91, DOI
   10.1201/9781003531449-6
TI Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture, Food and Healthy Nutrition
AU Ozoglu O; Almahbashi AAA; Hacat FI; Sevim B; Altuntas EG
TC 1
SO IMPACT ARTIF INTELL HEAL IND VOL 2 CLIN APPL
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) or internet of things ( iot ) have been
   employed in many areas including agriculture for a long time ( alreshidi ,
   2019 ) . in the ever evolving landscape of technology , ai has emerged as a
   transformative force , revolutionizing industries and reshaping the approach
   to complex challenges . one such domain where ai s potential is increasingly
   being harnessed is at the intersection of agriculture , food production ,
   and the promotion of healthy diets . according to research results obtained
   using a bibliometric methodology and a fractional counting method of
   clustering to analyze the scientific literature on ai , a link has been
   established between artificial intelligence and the green economy /
   sustainable development ( camarena , 2020 . ruiz real , uribe toril ,
   arriaza , and valenciano , 2020 ) . 2026 mustafa berktas , rector ,
   abdulkadir hiziroglu , ahmet emin erbaycu , orhan er and sezer bozkus
   kahyaoglu .
ID agribusiness; agriculture; internet of things; nutrition; bibliometric
   methodologies; clusterings; food production; green economies; healthy diet;
   research results; scientific literature; artificial intelligence

---

UT 918
AR Bhat MA, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V157, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104901
TI Response to the letter by Prof.  Yoshiyasu Takefuji: Enhancing
   methodological rigor in machine learning for food authentication
AU Bhat MA; Rather MY; Singh P/2; Hassan S; Hussain N
TC 1
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : machine learning ( ml ) is pivotal in food authentication , yet
   biases in feature importance assessments and model dependency remain
   critical challenges , as highlighted by prof . takefuji . scope and approach
   : this response addresses prof . takefuji s concerns by proposing advanced
   statistical methodologies ( e . g . , spearman s correlation , permutation
   testing ) , rigorous validation frameworks , and interdisciplinary
   collaboration to mitigate biases . we emphasize improving the reliability ,
   fairness , and interpretability of ml models across diverse datasets and
   regulatory contexts . key findings and conclusion : integrating robust
   statistical methods with domain expertise enhances model transparency and
   accuracy . recommendations include adopting ensemble modeling , cross
   validation , and bias audits to ensure actionable transparency for
   stakeholders . these steps are vital for advancing equitable and reliable
   food authentication systems
DE bias mitigation; feature importance; food authentication; food safety;
   machine learning; statistical validation
ID contrastive learning; bias mitigation; critical challenges; feature
   importance; food authentications; food safety; machine learning; model
   dependencies; spearman correlation; statistical methodologies; statistical
   validation; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 919
AR Shin SH, 2026, MOL DIVERS, V30, P2889, DOI 10.1007/s11030-026-11506-5
TI Discovering anti-obesity blue food compounds via combined deep learning and
   in silico approaches
AU Shin SH; Oh E; Park C; Oh SM; Hwang HJ; You JY; Ryu H; Hur G; Kim JW; Yoon
   Park JH; Roh E; Kang H; Lee KW
TC 0
SO MOL DIVERS
PY 2026
AB blue foods , such as fish and aquatic sources , are rich in bioactive
   compounds with potential health benefits , including anti obesity effects .
   ampk , a key regulator of energy homeostasis and adipogenesis , plays a
   vital role in combating obesity by inhibiting adipocyte differentiation .
   this study aimed to identify natural ampk activators from underexplored blue
   foods using a deep learning based compound protein interaction ( cpi )
   prediction model that incorporates both local and global features of
   proteins and compounds . local and global molecular characteristics were
   systematically represented using sequence based encodings , molecular
   fingerprints , and protein descriptors to enhance the model s ability to
   capture diverse biochemical relationships . the deep learning framework
   integrated these multimodal features through neural network modules to
   predict potential compoundprotein interactions . in silico molecular docking
   was performed to refine the predicted interactions , leading to the
   identification of 94 top scoring compounds with strong binding affinity
   toward ampk . in vitro validation of five commercially available compounds
   confirmed anti obesity activity . notably , cyclo ( pro val ) from ulva
   pertusa , activated ampk and modulated key adipogenic markers , suggesting
   its potential as a natural ampk activator for obesity prevention and the
   feasibility of ai driven screening for marine bioactives
DE amp-activated protein kinase ( ampk ); anti-obesity; blue food; deep
   learning; food compounds
ID transcription factor; hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase kinase;
   adipogenesis; article; binding affinity; biological activity; cellular
   neural network; computer model; deep learning; drug development;
   homeostasis; hydrophilicity; ic50; in vitro study; learning; mathematical
   model; metabolism; molecular docking; molecular fingerprinting; molecular
   weight; nonhuman; obesity; pharmacokinetics; physical chemistry; predictive
   model; protein expression; protein interaction; real time polymerase chain
   reaction; training; ulva pertusa; western blotting; article; controlled
   study; food; human; middle aged

---

UT 920
AR Nguyen DV, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2585 CCIS, P98, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-98164-7_8
TI Smart Food Manufacturing: Integrating Deep Learning Models for Enhancing
   Efficiency in Broken Egg Detection
AU Nguyen DV; Nguyen Q-B; Le H-DP; Tran NH
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB in the rapidly evolving food manufacturing sector , detecting defects in
   products such as broken eggs on conveyor systems is crucial for ensuring
   product quality and safety before delivery . traditional inspection methods
   often need more efficiency and accuracy , leading to increased waste and
   compromised safety standards . recently the studies have been invested in
   this issue to explore the ability of optimizing the current methods ,
   however , the space left in this sector for improving efficiency and
   accuracy is open . in this paper , we address these challenges by leveraging
   advanced deep learning models to enhance detection capabilities . we utilize
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) for precise image recognition , deep
   neural networks ( dnns ) for analyzing complex patterns , long short term
   memory ( lstm ) networks for monitoring temporal data , and you only look
   once ( yolo ) version 11.0 real time object detection algorithm for precise
   image detection . a hybrid cnn lstm model also integrates these approaches ,
   significantly improving detection accuracy and efficiency . our experiments
   demonstrate that yolo11n cls can achieve a highly competitive result against
   state of the art accuracy and speed , reaching an accuracy of 99.537 % and
   an inference time of 0.4ms per image . our study contributes to developing
   more sustainable food manufacturing systems by reducing waste and improving
   operational efficiency . our experimental results are highly promising at
   this first step as the accuracy rate of the best model reaches 94 %
DE cnn; deep learning; defect detection; dnn; hybrid cnn-lstm; lstm; quality
   control; smart food manufacturing; yolov11
ID arts computing; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks;
   defects; efficiency; error detection; food safety; image recognition;
   inspection; learning systems; object detection; object recognition; signal
   detection; smart manufacturing; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   defect detection; food manufacturing; hybrid convolutional neural network-
   long short-term memory; neural networks; short-term memory; yolov11; long
   short-term memory

---

UT 921
AR Zhang Q/7, 2026, PROC INT CONF ECON DATA ANAL ARTIF INTELL EDAI, P638, DOI
   10.1145/3789297.3789396
TI Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches for Accurate Food Delivery
   Time Prediction and Feature Interpretation
AU Zhang Q/7
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF ECON DATA ANAL ARTIF INTELL EDAI
PY 2026
AB accurate quantitative forecasting of takeout delivery times is crucial not
   only for enhancing customer satisfaction but also for optimizing logistics
   scheduling and resource allocation efficiency . this study utilizes publicly
   available data from the informs tsl data driven research challenge ,
   focusing on two primary indicators of delivery performance : 'arrival_error
   and 'time_order_to_arrive . the research systematically compares the
   predictive performance of multiple machine learning and deep learning models
   under a standardized data preprocessing framework and integrates advanced
   hyperparameter tuning strategies to substantially enhance model accuracy .
   empirical results demonstrate that the stacking model , optimized through
   rigorous parameter tuning , exhibits superior predictive performance across
   both tasks , outperforming traditional linear models and single deep models
   . furthermore , utilizing shapley additive explanations ( shap ) for feature
   contribution analysis , the study identifies spatial distance , merchant
   density , and peak hours as key environmental factors influencing delivery
   times , thus revealing critical environmental determinants of delivery
   performance . these findings provide a strong theoretical foundation for
   optimizing scheduling strategies . the multi model comparison , multi index
   evaluation framework , and interpretability methodologies introduced in this
   research enrich the analytical dimensions of food delivery time prediction
   and offer an effective technological approach for industry practitioners
   aiming to achieve precise scheduling and service improvements
DE deep learning; food delivery; machine learning; shap analysis
ID customer satisfaction; forecasting; learning systems; optimization; deep
   learning; delivery performance; delivery time; food delivery; learning
   approach; machine learning; predictive performance; shapley; shapley
   additive explanation analyze; time predictions; deep learning

---

UT 922
AR Revesai Z, 2025, BIOMEDINFORMATICS, V5, DOI 10.3390/biomedinformatics5030036
TI Self-Explaining Neural Networks for Food Recognition and Dietary Analysis
AU Revesai Z; Kogeda OP
TC 2
SO BIOMEDINFORMATICS
PY 2025
AB food pattern recognition plays a crucial role in modern healthcare by
   enabling automated dietary monitoring and personalized nutritional
   interventions , particularly for vulnerable populations with complex dietary
   needs . current food recognition systems struggle to balance high accuracy
   with interpretability and computational efficiency when analyzing complex
   meal compositions in real world settings . we developed a novel self
   explaining neural architecture that integrates specialized attention
   mechanisms with temporal modules within a streamlined framework . our
   methodology employs hierarchical feature extraction through successive
   convolution operations , multi head attention mechanisms for pattern
   classification , and bidirectional lstm networks for temporal analysis .
   architecture incorporates self explaining components utilizing attention
   based mechanisms and interpretable concept encoders to maintain transparency
   . we evaluated our model on the food101 dataset using 5-fold cross
   validation , ablation studies , and comprehensive computational efficiency
   assessments . training employed multi objective optimization with adaptive
   learning rates and specialized loss functions designed for dietary pattern
   recognition . experiments demonstrate our model s superior performance ,
   achieving 94.1 % accuracy with only 29.3 ms inference latency and 3.8 gb
   memory usage , representing a 63.3 % parameter reduction compared to
   baseline transformers . the system maintains detection rates above 84 % in
   complex multi item recognition scenarios , while feature attribution
   analysis achieved scores of 0.89 for primary components . cross validation
   confirmed consistent performance with accuracy ranging from 92.8 % to 93.5 %
   across all folds . this research advances automated dietary analysis by
   providing an efficient , interpretable solution for food recognition with
   direct applications in nutritional monitoring and personalized healthcare ,
   particularly benefiting vulnerable populations who require transparent and
   trustworthy dietary guidance
DE explainable ai; interpretable deep learning; model interpretability;
   nutrient analysis; nutritional science; vulnerable populations
ID article; artificial intelligence; convolutional neural network; cross
   validation; deep learning; diet analysis; dietary pattern; explainable
   artificial intelligence; feature extraction; human; learning; long short-
   term memory network; nerve cell network; nutritional science; nutritional
   status; pattern recognition; recurrent neural network; risk assessment;
   temporal analysis; vulnerable population

---

UT 923
AR Rojas-Flores SJ, 2026, AGRIC, V16, DOI 10.3390/agriculture16040462
TI A Bibliometric Review of Machine Learning for Sustainable Agri-Food Systems:
   Evolution, Collaboration Networks, and Future Directions
AU Rojas-Flores SJ; Liza R; Nazario-Naveda R; Díaz F; Delfin-Narciso D;
   Cardenas MG
TC 1
SO AGRIC
PY 2026
AB global agri food systems face a critical conflict between the need to feed a
   growing population and the imperative to mitigate its substantial
   environmental impact , including 23 % of global greenhouse gas emissions and
   70 % of freshwater withdrawals . this bibliometric review maps the
   scientific landscape of machine learning ( ml ) research applied to
   sustainable agri food systems . using a structured bibliometric protocol ,
   we analyzed 648 scientific documents from scopus ( 20102025 ) to map the
   evolution , collaborative networks , and thematic trends in this domain .
   results reveal a field that has grown exponentially until 2021 , primarily
   driven by contributions from computer science ( 26 % ) and engineering ( 21
   % ) , with key publications in journals such as computers and electronics in
   agriculture ( 22 papers , 2631 citations ) . while china and india lead in
   productivity ( 80 % of top authors ) , high impact research remains strongly
   linked to international collaborations with institutions in the you . s .
   and eu . current ml efforts focus on technical optimization such as
   precision irrigation , pest detection , and yield prediction but fall short
   in addressing social equity and climate resilience . the study concludes
   that while ml holds significant promise for sustainable agri food processing
   and system optimization , future progress depends on overcoming fragmented
   regional collaborations and integrating holistic frameworks , such as life
   cycle assessment , to ensure resilient and equitable food systems
DE data-driven sustainability; food systems optimization; intelligent systems;
   machine learning; precision agriculture; sustainable agriculture
ID china; india; alternative agriculture; environmental impact; farming system;
   food processing; greenhouse gas; holistic approach; life cycle analysis;
   machine learning; optimization; precision agriculture

---

UT 924
AR Qi X, 2026, ING SISM, V43, DOI 10.65102/is2026182
TI Timeliness Optimization Problem and Adaptive Neural Network Application in
   Fresh Food Logistics Supply Chain Collaboration
AU Qi X; Wang M/1; Xiang X/1
TC 0
SO ING SISM
PY 2026
AB the current study puts forward the idea of decision making based on
   collaboration between the demand forecasting and logistics coordination
   process of fresh food , using improved pso bp neural network . the bp neural
   network is reinforced through application of pso technology that
   incorporates optimized inertia weight , environmental awareness , and
   solution jumping technique , thus enhancing the accuracy of fresh food
   demand prediction . also , the study formulates the multi constraint and
   multi objective optimization model with consideration of time and cost
   related factors . the proposed model is then solved using simulated
   degradation ant colony algorithm , thereby widening the space for finding
   the optimal solution . the empirical analysis results reveal that the ipso
   bp model demonstrates better performances in comparison with ordinary bp and
   pso bp models in terms of various criteria . for instance , applying the
   multi objective distribution model in city a leads to emergence of five
   optimization routes and decreases the logistics costs , complying with
   timeliness and load capacity requirements . thus , the study makes important
   theoretical and practical contributions to the development of intelligent
   collaborative optimization of fresh food logistics supply chain . 2026 ,
   medinlin soft
DE ant colony algorithm; fresh food logistics supply chain; ipso-bp neural
   network; multi-objective optimization model; timeliness optimization
ID economics; environmental technology; multi-objective optimization; neural
   networks; ant colonies algorithm; bp neural networks; food logistics; fresh
   food; fresh food logistic supply chain; ipso-bp neural network; logistics
   supply chains; multi-objective optimization models; optimizations;
   timeliness optimization; ant colony optimization

---

UT 925
AR Soumury JB, 2025, PROC - INT CONF INFORMATICS MULTIMED CYBER SYST ICIMCIS,
   P557, DOI 10.1109/ICIMCIS68501.2025.11327227
TI Personalized Food Recommender Using Graph Neural Networks: A Comparative
   Study of R-GCN and HAN Model
AU Soumury JB; Wijaya RE; Nugroho ARA; Prabowo AS
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF INFORMATICS MULTIMED CYBER SYST ICIMCIS
PY 2025
AB the rising demand for healthier diets and the rapid growth of food related
   data on digital platforms have highlighted the importance of effective
   personalized food recommender systems . conventional methodologies , like
   content based and collaborative filtering , sometimes fail to capture the
   complex relationships between users , recipes , ingredients , and contextual
   food data . to solve these limitations , this research explores advanced gnn
   architectures for personalized food recommendation , including relational
   graph convolutional networks ( rgcn ) and heterogeneous attention networks (
   han ) . experimental result shows that rgcn offers more stable training and
   higher precision , while han provides greater flexibility for context aware
   recommendations through heterogeneous aggregation . especially , the
   performance of single layer rgcn achieved 96.55 % precision and 98.25 %
   f1-score , surpassing two layer han performance that reached 88.71 %
   precision and 94.02 % f1-score , which shows the superior stability and
   predictive power of rgcn . these results highlight the need to carefully
   tune network depth and point to future hybrid approaches that combine rgcn
   stability with han semantic adaptability
DE food recommender; gnn; han; rgcn
ID distributed computer systems; food ingredients; nutrition; recommender
   systems; comparatives studies; convolutional networks; f1 scores; food
   recommender; gnn; graph neural networks; heterogeneous attention network;
   performance; relational graph; relational graph convolutional network;
   semantics

---

UT 926
AR Ding H/1, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14020247
TI Application of Convolutional Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks
   in Food Safety
AU Ding H/1; Hou H; Wang L; Cui X/1; Yu W; Wilson DI
TC 54
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB this review explores the application of convolutional neural networks ( cnns
   ) and recurrent neural networks ( rnns ) in food safety detection and risk
   prediction . this paper highlights the advantages of cnns in image
   processing and feature recognition , as well as the powerful capabilities of
   rnns ( especially their variant lstm ) in time series data modeling . this
   paper also makes a comparative analysis in many aspects : firstly , the
   advantages and disadvantages of traditional food safety detection and risk
   prediction methods are compared with deep learning technologies such as cnns
   and rnns . secondly , the similarities and differences between cnns and
   fully connected neural networks in processing image data are analyzed .
   furthermore , the advantages and disadvantages of rnns and traditional
   statistical modeling methods in processing time series data are discussed .
   finally , the application directions of cnns in food safety detection and
   rnns in food safety risk prediction are compared . this paper also discusses
   combining these deep learning models with technologies such as the internet
   of things ( iot ) , blockchain , and federated learning to improve the
   accuracy and efficiency of food safety detection and risk warning . finally
   , this paper mentions the limitations of rnns and cnns in the field of food
   safety , as well as the challenges in the interpretability of the model ,
   and suggests the use of interpretable artificial intelligence ( xai )
   technology to improve the transparency of the model
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food safety; long short-term
   memory; recurrent neural networks

---

UT 927
AR Hu J, 2025, BMC BIOINFORM, V26, DOI 10.1186/s12859-025-06283-1
TI A lightweight single-view contrastive learning hypergraph neural network for
   food–microbe–disease association prediction
AU Hu J; Hu M; Wu Y/4; Mu S; Huang D; Wang B; Gao Y; Gu S; Zhu J
TC 1
SO BMC BIOINFORM
PY 2025
AB background : identifying potential associations among food , gut microbiota
   and disease is fundamental for elucidating interaction mechanisms and
   advancing personalized healthy dietary strategies . while computational
   methods have been extensively applied to predict microbiotadisease
   associations , methods on predicting foodmicrobiota relationships remain
   limited , particularly regarding higher order foodmicrobiotadisease
   interactions . results : in this work , we construct a foodmicrobedisease (
   fmd ) database encompassing 190 food items , 219 gut microbiota species ,
   and 163 disease entities , resulting in 17,065 fmd associations . we then
   propose a lightweight single view contrastive learning hypergraph neural
   network ( lschnn ) for fmd association prediction on the sparse fmd dataset
   . lschnn formulates ternary fmd interactions as a hypergraph , in which
   foods , microbes , and diseases are represented by nodes and fmd triplets
   are represented by hyperedges , and leverages the biological features of
   foods , microbes , and diseases as node attributes . subsequently , a
   hypergraph neural network is designed to learn the embeddings of foods ,
   microbes , and diseases from the hypergraph and predict potential ternary
   fmd associations . additionally , we incorporate a single view contrastive
   learning mechanism that enhances the model s ability to extract
   discriminative features and improves generalization on sparse data .
   comprehensive comparison experiments demonstrate that lschnn outperforms
   other state of the art methods in terms of the precision of predicting
   ternary fmd associations and discovering more potential fmd associations .
   case studies on two microbes further confirm the effectiveness of lschnn in
   identifying potential fmd associations . conclusions : a novel computational
   model , lschnn , is proposed , marking the first integration of hypergraph
   neural networks with lightweight single view contrastive learning for
   ternary fmd association prediction , providing a groundbreaking framework
   for precision nutrition and personalized dietary interventions
DE contrastive learning; foodmicrobedisease association prediction; hypergraph
   neural networks; precision nutrition
ID computational biology; databases factual; food microbiology;
   gastrointestinal microbiome; humans; machine learning; neural networks
   computer; association reactions; bacteria; computational methods;
   contrastive learning; learning systems; neural networks; nutrition; disease
   associations; foodmicrobedisease association prediction; gut disease; gut
   microbiota; hyper graph; hypergraph neural network; interaction mechanisms;
   microbiotas; neural networks; precision nutrition; accuracy; article;
   computer model; diet therapy; human; intestine flora; learning; microflora;
   microorganism; nerve cell network; prediction; artificial neural network;
   bioinformatics; factual database; food control; intestine flora; machine
   learning; procedures; forecasting

---

UT 928
AR Liu D/1, 2025, APPL SCI, V15, DOI 10.3390/app15147626
TI Deep Learning in Food Image Recognition: A Comprehensive Review
AU Liu D/1; Zuo E; Wang D/5; He L; Dong L; Lu X/1
TC 13
SO APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB food not only fulfills basic human survival needs but also significantly
   impacts health and culture . research on food related topics holds
   substantial theoretical and practical significance , with food image
   recognition being a core task in fine grained image recognition . this field
   has broad applications and promising prospects in smart dining , intelligent
   healthcare , and smart retail . with the rapid advancement of artificial
   intelligence , deep learning has emerged as a key technology that enhances
   recognition efficiency and accuracy , enabling more practical applications .
   this paper comprehensively reviews the techniques and challenges of deep
   learning in food image recognition . first , we outline the historical
   development of food image recognition technologies , categorizing the
   primary methods into manual feature extraction based and deep learning based
   approaches . next , we systematically organize existing food image datasets
   and summarize the characteristics of several representative datasets .
   additionally , we analyze typical deep learning models and their performance
   on different datasets . finally , we discuss the practical applications of
   food image recognition in calorie estimation and food safety , identify
   current research challenges , and propose future research directions
DE computer vision; deep learning; food datasets; food image recognition
ID food safety; image recognition; learning systems; broad application; deep
   learning; fine grained; food dataset; food image; food image recognition;
   human survival; key technologies; recognition accuracy; recognition
   efficiency; computer vision; deep learning

---

UT 929
AR Das P, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V468, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2024.142439
TI Recent advances on artificial intelligence-based approaches for food
   adulteration and fraud detection in the food industry: Challenges and
   opportunities
AU Das P; Altemimi AB; Nath PC; Katyal M; Kesavan RK; Rustagi S; Panda J; Avula
   SK; Nayak PK; Mohanta YK
TC 37
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB food adulteration is the deceitful practice of misleading consumers about
   food to profit from it . the threat to public health and food quality or
   nutritional valuable make it a major issue . food origin and adulteration
   should be considered to safeguard customers against fraud . it has been
   established that artificial intelligence is a cutting edge technology in
   food science and engineering . in this study , it has been explained how ai
   detects food tampering . applications of ai such as machine learning tools
   in food quality have been studied . this review covered several food quality
   detection web based information sources . the methods used to detect food
   adulteration and food quality standards have been highlighted . various
   comparisons between state of the art techniques , datasets , and outcomes
   have been conducted . the outcomes of this investigation will assist
   researchers choose the best food quality method . it will help them identify
   of foods that have been explored by researchers and potential research
   avenues
DE ann; artificial intelligence; beverages; cnn; food adulteration; fraud
   detection; fruits
ID artificial intelligence; food analysis; food contamination; food industry;
   food quality; fraud; humans; food chemistry; ann; applications of ai;
   cutting edge technology; food adulterations; food engineering; food
   industries; food quality; food science; fraud detection; science and
   engineering; article; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network;
   beverage; consumer; electric potential; food; food industry; food quality;
   fraud; fruit; human; machine learning; nutritional science; profit; public
   health; food analysis; food contamination; food industry; prevention and
   control; procedures; food ingredients

---

UT 930
AR Bilen AB, 2026, NUTR, V13, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2026.1765598
TI Artificial intelligence diet plans underestimate nutrient intake compared to
   dietitians in adolescents
AU Bilen AB; Kalkan GE; Önal HY
TC 0
SO NUTR
PY 2026
AB objective : although artificial intelligence ( ai ) -based nutrition
   recommendations are becoming increasingly common among the public , the
   accuracy and reliability of diets produced especially for adolescents in the
   growth and development period are not sufficiently known . this study aimed
   to evaluate the clinical validity of ai by comparing the nutritional content
   of diets generated by different ai models with dietitian reference plans .
   methods : a total of 60 three day diet plans were generated in two sessions
   by five ai models ( chatgpt 4o , gemini 2.5 pro , claude 4.1 , bing chat
   5gpt , and perplexity ) for four standardized adolescent profiles in this
   cross sectional and comparative study . a dietitian reference plan was
   prepared for each profile . energy and macro micronutrients were analyzed
   with bebis . comparisons were evaluated with single sample t test , cohen s
   d , and blandaltman fit analyzes . results : ai models tended to
   systematically undercalculate energy ( bias : +695 kcal ) , protein ( +19.9
   g ) , lipid ( +15.8 g ) , and carbohydrate ( +114.6 g ) . in macronutrient
   percentages , protein ( 21.523.7 % ) and lipid ( 41.544.5 % ) ratios were
   above the recommended adolescent guidelines , while carbohydrate ratios (
   32.436.3 % ) were significantly below . significant variation was observed
   between models in micronutrient contents , and no model showed consistent
   proximity to the dietitian across all nutrients . conclusion : ai models
   have exhibited clinically significant deviations in diet plans for
   adolescents at both macro and micro levels . the findings indicate that ai
   based dietary recommendations are not appropriate to use without
   professional supervision , emphasizing the need for model improvements for
   more reliable data generation in this area
DE adolescent nutrition; artificial intelligence; diet planning; large language
   models; nutrient adequacy

---

UT 931
AR Jia L, 2025, EUR J MARK, P1, DOI 10.1108/EJM-08-2024-0645
TI From detection to resolution: using machine learning to identify food safety
   risks and solutions in online consumer reviews
AU Jia L; Gupta S/1; Yan C; Wang Y/6; Shen A
TC 0
SO EUR J MARK
PY 2025
AB purpose this study uses machine learning approach to detect food safety
   risks and identify potential solutions by analyzing consumer reviews in the
   online catering platform . design / methodology / approach the approach
   involves analyzing over 10 , 000 consumer reviews to develop dictionary of
   food safety risk related keywords . these methods allow for the effective
   identification of specific food safety risks from consumer generated online
   reviews . additionally , a best worst scaling experiment complemented by
   mixed logit model analysis ranks potential solutions according to consumer
   preferences , integrating these insights into practical strategies .
   findings the study evaluates consumer preference to various food safety risk
   solutions using best worst scaling experiment , indicating strong
   preferences for the food safety traceability system and legislative measures
   as effective strategies . meanwhile , other strategies such as science
   popularization and merchants elimination evoke mixed reactions , reflecting
   diverse consumer perceptions on their efficacy . these insights are pivotal
   for shaping targeted , effective food safety practices in online catering
   platforms . research limitations / implications while the findings offer
   significant insights , the research is limited by the specificity of the
   data to online reviews , which may not fully capture the breadth of food
   safety risks encountered by consumers . future research could expand the
   scope of data sources to include more direct consumer interactions and
   feedback mechanisms . practical implications this study provides valuable
   strategies for online catering platforms to integrate the solutions of
   addressing food safety risks into their business models effectively . social
   implications consumer preferences for online food safety solutions determine
   their efficacy . few studies have examined this problem from consumers
   perspectives . this study reminded academics of consumer desire for
   different solutions . the preceding data analysis showed that respondents
   expect internet food safety issues can be solved before they occur . thus ,
   developing food safety solutions before they reach customers is advised .
   originality / value this research extends the conventional use of text
   mining for sentiment analysis by applying it within the food safety context
   in the online catering platform . it uniquely combines the analytical rigor
   of machine learning with practical marketing strategies to address a
   critical public health issue
DE best-worst scaling experiments; food safety risk; machine learning; online
   consumer reviews; supervised learning

---

UT 932
AR Yang H/1, 2025, DISCOV ARTIF INTELL, V5, DOI 10.1007/s44163-025-00296-8
TI Artificial intelligence in the food industry: innovations and applications
AU Yang H/1; Jiao W; Zouyi L; Diao H; Xia S
TC 34
SO DISCOV ARTIF INTELL
PY 2025
AB the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in the food industry has
   driven significant advancements in efficiency , safety , and sustainability
   . this review assesses the current state and future prospects of ai
   applications in key areas such as food traceability , safety , quality
   control , supply chain optimization , and intelligent packaging solutions .
   ai technologies , including machine learning ( ml ) algorithms and computer
   vision systems , are widely used to optimize supply chains , predict demand
   , reduce waste , and enhance food safety and quality monitoring . advanced
   ml models are employed to analyze production data , monitor quality
   parameters , and predict shelf life , ensuring compliance with stringent
   regulatory standards . despite these advancements , challenges related to
   data quality , system integration , computational demands , and ethical
   considerations remain , necessitating further research and collaboration
   among stakeholders . this review aims to elucidate these challenges while
   highlighting the transformative potential of ai in the food industry . by
   synthesizing recent developments and trends , this paper provides valuable
   insights for researchers , industry professionals , and policymakers ,
   underscoring the pivotal role of ai in driving innovation and sustainability
   in the food sector
DE artificial intelligence; food traceability; predictive analytics; quality
   control; supply chain
ID agri-food; bakeries; breweries; computer control; cryptography; dairies;
   damage detection; food preservation; food preservatives; food storage; food
   waste; statistical process control; current; food industries; food
   traceabilitys; future prospects; industry applications; industry
   innovations; intelligent packaging; packaging solutions; safety qualities;
   supply chain optimization; model predictive control

---

UT 933
AR Ding H/1, 2025, FOOD BIOSCI, V68, DOI 10.1016/j.fbio.2025.106404
TI Artificial intelligence enhances food testing process: A comprehensive
   review
AU Ding H/1; Xie Z; Yu W; Cui X/1; Wilson DI
TC 16
SO FOOD BIOSCI
PY 2025
AB this study explores the transformative role of artificial intelligence ( ai
   ) in food testing , focusing on its applications in food safety , quality
   assessment , and authenticity verification . addressing the limitations of
   traditional detection methods in efficiency and cost effectiveness , the
   research systematically analyzes how machine learning ( ml ) and deep
   learning ( dl ) technologies synergize with advanced measurement techniques
   such as sensor detection , spectral imaging , and molecular analysis to
   achieve rapid , non destructive testing . the paper emphasizes the critical
   role of data preprocessing and feature engineering in optimizing model
   performance , while comparing the advantages of supervised , unsupervised ,
   and semi supervised learning algorithms across diverse detection scenarios .
   it highlights the necessity of explainable artificial intelligence ( xai )
   to enhance system transparency and trustworthiness . future directions are
   proposed , including the integration of multimodal data , development of
   adaptive ai systems , and establishment of predictive safety indicators .
   the study provides a theoretical framework and technical roadmap for
   advancing ai applications in food testing , offering significant insights
   for driving intelligent transformation in the food industry
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food testing; future development;
   machine learning

---

UT 934
AR Qian C/1, 2025, J FOOD PROT, V88, DOI 10.1016/j.jfp.2025.100463
TI Initializing a Public Repository for Hosting Benchmark Datasets to
   Facilitate Machine Learning Model Development in Food Safety
AU Qian C/1; Yang H/2; Acharya J; Liao J; Ivanek R; Wiedmann M/1
TC 3
SO J FOOD PROT
PY 2025
AB while there is clear potential for artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning ( ml ) models to help improve food safety , the development
   and deployment of these models in the food safety domain are by and large
   lacking . the absence of publicly available databases that host well curated
   datasets that can be used to develop and validate ai /ml models represents
   one likely barrier . thus , we took three previously published datasets ,
   which we further cleaned and annotated , and made them publicly available in
   a repository called cornell food safety ml repository . the selected
   datasets include ( i ) presence or absence of listeria spp . in soil samples
   collected across the you . s . with paired metadata for soil properties ,
   geolocation , climate , and surrounding land use , ( ii ) presence or
   absence of salmonella and campylobacter in young chicken carcasses tested in
   processing facilities with associated meteorological and temporal metadata ,
   and ( iii ) presence or absence of fecal contamination as well as e . coli
   concentration in new york watersheds with associated metadata for land use ,
   water attributes , and meteorological factors . these datasets can serve as
   benchmark datasets for developing ml models . to demonstrate the utility of
   the repository , we developed customizable scripts as well as lazypredict (
   a quick screening method ) scripts for training different types of ml models
   using the shared datasets . while this repository provides an important
   starting point that will allow for the development and testing of ml models
   to predict foodborne pathogens contamination in different sources , the
   inclusion of further datasets is clearly needed to advance this field . this
   paper thus includes a call to action for the deposit of well curated
   datasets that can be used for further development of predictive models in
   food safety . this paper will also discuss the benefits of such public
   databases , including the assessment of data sharing scenarios using
   existing privacy preserving techniques
DE artificial intelligence; data sharing; data standardization; machine
   learning; predictive model; public database
ID animals; benchmarking; chickens; databases factual; food contamination; food
   microbiology; food safety; humans; machine learning; soil microbiology;
   animal; benchmarking; factual database; food contamination; food control;
   food safety; gallus gallus; human; machine learning; microbiology

---

UT 935
AR Khanvilkar A, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1265 LNNS, P405, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-2299-3_27
TI Visual Sentiment Analysis Using Deep Learning Techniques Based on Food
   Reviews
AU Khanvilkar A; Meena S; Vora D; Gothivrekar S; Kadu S
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB in recent years , the proliferation of online reviews has become pronounced
   , marking a significant shift in how individuals convey their opinions about
   various establishments , particularly restaurants . notably , there has been
   a discernible trend wherein individuals incorporate images alongside textual
   feedback , enriching the review experience by providing nuanced visual cues
   . these images serve as substrates for sentiment analysis , wherein the
   polarity of sentiments is discerned through either facial expressions or
   food depiction . while considerable strides have been made in text sentiment
   analysis , this paper delves into visual analysis as a focal point for
   discerning sentiment expression in images . leveraging various deep learning
   models such as convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) , vgg19 , inceptionv3
   and resnet10 a robust image sentiment prediction model is identified . the
   primary aim is to efficiently identify sentiment and augment the accuracy of
   food review datasets disseminated across social media platforms . the
   findings of this study reveal the performance of each model in sentiment
   analysis based on a custom dataset compared to various others
DE cnn; deep learning; resnet; sentiment analysis
ID deep neural networks; image analysis; learning systems; reviews;
   convolutional neural network; deep learning; facial expressions; focal
   points; learning models; learning techniques; online reviews; sentiment
   analysis; visual analysis; visual cues; sentiment analysis

---

UT 936
AR Lee J-Y, 2025, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V14, DOI 10.3390/electronics14030457
TI Recommendation Method Based on Glycemic Index for Intake Order of Foods
   Detected by Deep Learning
AU Lee J-Y; Kwon S-K
TC 0
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2025
AB in this paper , we propose a recommendation method for food intake order
   based on the glycemic index ( gi ) using deep learning to reduce rapid blood
   sugar spikes during meals . the foods in a captured image are classified
   through a food detection network . the gis for the detected foods are found
   by matching their names or categories with the information stored in the
   database . if the detected food name or category is not found in the
   database , the food information is found from a public api . the food is
   classified into one of the food categories based on nutrients , and the
   median gi of the corresponding category is assigned to the food . the food
   intake order is recommended from the lowest to the highest gi . we
   implemented a web service that visualizes the food analysis results and the
   recommended food intake order . in experimental results , the average
   inference time and accuracy were 57.1 ms and 98.99 % for mask r cnn ,
   respectively , and 24.4 ms and 91.72 % for yolov11 , respectively
DE blood sugar spike prevention; food detection; food intake order
   recommendation; glycemic index

---

UT 937
AR [Anonymous], 2025, PROC ICSINTESA - INT CONF SCI TECHNOL SMART ADM, P299,
   DOI 10.1109/ICSINTESA68165.2025.11413696
TI Hybrid Statistical-Deep Learning Framework for Modeling Food Price
   Volatility Using ARIMA, LSTM, and Transformer Networks
TC 0
SO PROC ICSINTESA - INT CONF SCI TECHNOL SMART ADM
PY 2025
AB price volatility of staple foods in indonesia driven by supply chain
   disruptions , climate anomalies , and global market dynamics poses
   significant challenges to national food security and economic planning .
   this study proposes and implements a hybrid forecasting framework that
   combines autoregressive integrated moving average ( arima ) , long short
   term memory ( lstm ) , and transformer models to predict the prices of key
   staple commodities including rice , cooking oil , chicken meat , eggs ,
   shallots , red chilies , and sugar . using monthly retail price data from
   2021 to 2024 provided by the central bureau of statistics ( bps ) and the
   national food agency ( bapanas ) , the model leverages arima for linear
   trend extraction , lstm for temporal dependencies , and transformer for
   capturing non linear patterns and global interactions . experimental results
   demonstrate that the hybrid model achieves a 15.5 % reduction in rmse
   compared to the best performing baseline ( transformer only , average rmse =
   2,900 ) , indicating not only statistical but also practical improvement in
   forecast precision . while the hybrid model requires higher computational
   resources than individual models , its deployment as a containerized rest
   api ensures scalability and operational efficiency suitable for
   institutional use . this implementation offers a practical decision support
   tool for indonesian policymakers to stabilize food markets and mitigate
   inflation risks in highly volatile environments
DE ai-based economic modeling; arima-lstm-transformer architecture; big data
   analytics for policy decision support; food price prediction; hybrid time
   series forecasting
ID advanced analytics; autoregressive moving average model; big data; costs;
   decision support systems; economic analysis; food security; food supply;
   forecasting; international trade; national security; prediction models;
   supply chains; ai-based economic modeling; autoregressive; autoregressive
   integrated moving average-long short-term memory-transformer architecture;
   big data analytic for policy decision support; data analytics; decision
   supports; economic models; food price prediction; food prices; hybrid time
   series forecasting; moving averages; policy decisions; price prediction;
   short-term memory; time series forecasting; long short-term memory

---

UT 938
AR Jun AW, 2025, CONF PROC - INT CONF MAN-MACH SYST ICOMMS, P146, DOI
   10.1109/ICoMMS66553.2025.11200363
TI Development of a Visual Inspection System with Machine Learning for
   Automated Food Price Estimation in Restaurants
AU Jun AW; Rahiman MHF; Nayan NM; Zakaria A; Kamarudin LM; Zakaria SMMS
TC 0
SO CONF PROC - INT CONF MAN-MACH SYST ICOMMS
PY 2025
AB a yolov5 object detection model was trained on a custom labelled dataset of
   dummy food images to identify single and combined food items . the system
   integrates a webcam and structured lighting for consistent image capture .
   training involved data augmentation , label smoothing , and onecyclelr
   scheduling to optimize performance . the best model achieved high
   classification accuracy and f1-score , enabling real time food detection and
   pricing . this solution aims to reduce manual pricing errors and streamline
   restaurant operations
DE automated pricing; food recognition; machine learning; object detection;
   restaurant automation; visual inspection system; yolov5
ID automation; cost estimating; economics; inspection equipment; learning
   systems; machine learning; object recognition; automated pricing; detection
   models; food prices; food recognition; machine learning; objects detection;
   price estimation; restaurant automation; visual inspection systems; yolov5;
   object detection

---

UT 939
AR Pooe D, 2025, SUSTAIN DEBATE, V16, P285, DOI
   10.18472/SustDeb.v16n1.2025.55859
TI Digitalisation and sustainability convergence: leveraging artificial
   intelligence capabilities to enhance agri-food value chains' sustainability
   in Africa; [Digitalização e convergência da sustentabilidade: aplicação da
   inteligência artificial para melhorar a sustentabilidade das cadeias de
   valor agroalimentares na África]
AU Pooe D; Munyanyi W
TC 3
SO SUSTAIN DEBATE
PY 2025
AB the convergence of digitalisation and sustainability offers transformative
   potential for africa s agrifood value chains . by employing structural
   equation modeling , this paper investigates the convergence of
   digitalisation and sustainability in africa s agri food value chains ,
   including the mediating role of agrifood supply chain resilience . the
   critical role that artificial intelligence plays in enhancing food supply
   chain resilience in africa is at the core of this study . this study employs
   a deductive research approach to achieve the research objective , drawing on
   established theories to guide the development of the conceptual model and
   hypotheses . the results underline the importance of ai driven initiatives
   such as farmers yield optimization , food retail demand prediction , real
   time data analysis , and enhanced supply chain administration in
   strengthening the resilience of agri food supply chains . these findings
   suggest that investing in resilience building measures can generate long
   term benefits for the stability and sustainability of agri food systems
DE agri-food supply chain; artificial intelligence; resilience; sdgs;
   sustainability; value chains

---

UT 940
AR Kumar V, 2026, RENEW SUSTAIN ENERGY REV, V231, DOI
   10.1016/j.rser.2026.116769
TI Synergizing microbial and artificial intelligence technologies in food
   Systems: Innovations, safety, and sustainable pathways
AU Kumar V; Kaushik D; Kumar M
TC 0
SO RENEW SUSTAIN ENERGY REV
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) and microbial biotechnology are significantly
   advancing the redesign of food systems to make them sustainable , robust ,
   and safe . this review presents a comprehensive discussion on the synergy
   between the different microbial innovations , such as precision fermentation
   , bio preservation , and microbiome informed functional foods , with ai
   tools throughout the supply chain from farm to fork . it identifies machine
   learning , computer vision , biosensors , and blockchain based traceability
   as key components of industry 4.0 and the emerging food system 5.0 paradigms
   , and discusses their applications in real time microbial detection ,
   predictive risk evaluation , and supply chain optimization . notably , the
   review places these technological advancements in the context of energy
   sustainability , climate change , and transitions , highlighting the
   potential applications of ai microbial integration to energy intensity ,
   efficient cold chain , waste related embodied energy , and bioenergy /
   renewable powered food systems . it also emphasizes the importance of an
   integrated ecosystem in which ai drives strain development , process control
   , smart packaging , and bioeconomy strategies such as food waste
   valorization . besides , the review brings in a critical perspective and
   raises the issues of antimicrobial resistance , data quality issues ,
   digital divide , and regulatory and ethical uncertainties as limitations .
   in parallel , this review highlights gaps in life cycle assessment and
   quantitative energy measures while critically addressing limits related to
   antibiotic resistance , data quality , digital infrastructure , and
   regulatory ambiguity . it demands comprehensive assessments that link
   advancements in food safety to measurable energy saving , carbon reduction ,
   and integration of renewable energy
DE artificial intelligence; energy efficiency; food safety; food system 50;
   microbial biotechnology; sustainable food systems
ID bioeconomy; biotechnology; food microbiology; food preservation; food
   safety; food waste; learning systems; life cycle; artificial intelligence
   technologies; data quality; energy; food system; food system 50; food
   safety; microbial biotechnology; microbials; sustainable food system; supply
   chains

---

UT 941
AR Javed A, 2026, SCI REP, V16, DOI 10.1038/s41598-026-34993-w
TI Benchmarking econometric, decomposable additive, and neural network methods
   for food inflation prediction featuring policy insights
AU Javed A
TC 1
SO SCI REP
PY 2026
AB with a longstanding struggle to achieve food self sufficiency , bangladesh
   is facing a severe food security crisis , as highlighted by its placement on
   the world bank s ' red list ' for food inflation for two consecutive years .
   both the world bank and the bangladesh bureau of statistics ( bbs ) confirm
   that food inflation has exceeded 10 % over the past year . the crisis of
   rising food costs , attributed to a combination of global , local , and
   structural issues , is exacerbating socioeconomic hardships for low income
   households . it necessitated an in depth investigation into the external
   factors influencing food inflation at the domestic level , acknowledging
   that unprecedented inflation is one of the biggest hindrances to economic
   growth and development . existing research on food inflation is extensive ,
   yet the majority of these studies employ statistical / econometric models
   and fail to produce comparative analyzes . seeking to address this gap , the
   author analyzed the combined impact of climate variables and the energy
   price index on the food price index , employing machine learning models with
   monthly data of bangladesh from july 2010 to march 2025 . the study proposed
   four distinct time series models : sarimax , tdann , prophet , and lstm .
   out of all the tested models , with the lowest error metrics ( rmse and mae
   ) , ann [ 6 ] stood as the best , supporting the hypothesis of this research
   that nonlinear ml models are better at predicting food inflation than the
   traditional models . based on the key findings from explainable ai ( shap )
   and decomposed prophet component analysis , the study presents solid ,
   instantaneous focus based policy implications for the agricultural input and
   energy markets , addressing problems from both sides to better manage
   uncertainty during weather shocks and energy price volatility . the study
   can serve as a reliable reference for researchers and policymakers to inform
   strategies for mitigating the ongoing food security crisis in bangladesh
ID article; benchmarking; food; human; nerve cell network; prediction

---

UT 942
AR Ahmed N/1, 2026, COGENT FOOD AGRI, V12, DOI 10.1080/23311932.2026.2615165
TI The intersection of artificial intelligence and food systems: exploring
   technological breakthroughs and data-driven agriculture
AU Ahmed N/1; Kour R; Jan T; Sharma S; Singh TP; Chauhan P; Ghanghas S; Sheikh
   I; Rafatullah M; Setyawan HY; Huda N
TC 2
SO COGENT FOOD AGRI
PY 2026
AB food security is an international challenge that is constantly exposed to
   climate change , rapid population increases , economic inequalities and
   geopolitical unrest . thus , new solutions must be developed to address
   these issues . artificial intelligence ( ai ) has become one such solutions
   and it has helped to enhance different food production , processing and
   distribution phases . precision farming can be improved through ai because
   it allows the efficient management of resources such as water or fertilizers
   to increase crop yields . ai helps in the monitoring of animal health and
   optimization of feeding in livestock farming . in addition ai technologies
   simplify harvesting and enhancement after harvesting with enhanced sorting
   and grading . ai improves food processing through enhanced quality control
   and safety and optimizes logistics by improving routes , reducing spoilage
   and ensuring timely delivery . another area where ai can be useful in
   reducing waste is tracking and minimizing food waste at all levels , however
   ai can also be applied to personalized nutrition services to assist people
   in making healthier food choices . the implementation of ai in food supply
   chain can help countries become more efficient and sustainable , governments
   need to enhance technology through good policies , better infrastructure and
   extensive access to these technologies
DE artificial intelligence; automation and robotics; food security; food
   system; nutrition; precision agriculture

---

UT 943
AR Grasmann L, 2026, MACH LEARN APPL, V24, DOI 10.1016/j.mlwa.2026.100885
TI Improvements of Machine Learning forecasting for perishable food sales in
   real-world grocers
AU Grasmann L; Musliu N
TC 0
SO MACH LEARN APPL
PY 2026
AB machine learning is a useful tool for a wide range of forecasting
   applications that can differ largely in available data and suitable methods
   . we do a deep investigation of machine learning for demand and sales
   forecasting in retail and wholesale domains . using machine learning in
   these scenarios helps to optimize the ordering process and helps to reduce
   food waste through improved inventory management and ordering . although
   this problem has been studied by several researchers in the literature , the
   reproducibility of the results is usually lacking because of the
   unavailability of the data , and there is a potential for advanced features
   and prediction methods . we collaborate with three large austrian retailers
   and wholesalers who provide real world data and insights into their business
   processes . based on the data , we propose , collect , and create a dataset
   containing a novel combination of features that includes extensive long term
   real world sales and other business data , contextual data , weather data ,
   and movement data retrieved from cellular towers . using this , we propose a
   combination with state of the art machine learning techniques to improve the
   performance of forecasting in diverse real world retail and wholesale
   environments . we make anonymized datasets available to facilitate future
   research and reproducibility of results . our evaluations show that
   combining extensive datasets with state of the art algorithms improves our
   forecast performance to help generate more accurate orders
DE ai-driven forecasting; machine learning; perishable food; sales forecasting
ID forecasting; inventory control; learning algorithms; machine learning;
   sales; ai-driven forecasting; demand forecasting; food waste; forecasting
   applications; machine learning; ordering process; perishable food; real-
   world; reproducibilities; sales forecasting; learning systems

---

UT 944
AR Theera-Ampornpunt N, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14244269
TI Visual Food Ingredient Prediction Using Deep Learning with Direct F-Score
   Optimization
AU Theera-Ampornpunt N; Treepong P
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB food ingredient prediction from images is a challenging multi label
   classification task with significant applications in dietary assessment and
   automated recipe recommendation systems . this task is particularly
   difficult due to highly imbalanced classes in real world datasets , where
   most ingredients appear infrequently while several common ingredients
   dominate . in such imbalanced scenarios , the f score metric is often used
   to provide a balanced evaluation measure . however , existing methods for
   training artificial neural networks to directly optimize for the f score
   typically rely on computationally expensive hyperparameter optimization .
   this paper presents a novel approach for direct f score optimization by
   reformulating the problem as cost sensitive classifier optimization . we
   propose a computationally efficient algorithm for estimating the optimal
   relative cost parameters . when evaluated on the recipe1m dataset , our
   approach achieved a micro f1 score of 0.5616. this represents a substantial
   improvement from the state of the art method s score of 0.4927. our f score
   optimization framework offers a principled and generalizable solution to
   class imbalance problems . it can be extended to other imbalanced binary and
   multi label classification tasks beyond food analysis
DE cost-sensitive learning; deep learning; f-score optimization; food
   ingredient prediction; image classification; loss function

---

UT 945
AR Luo Y/2, 2025, CHIN TRAD HERB DRUGS, V56, P5892, DOI
   10.7501/j.issn.0253-2670.2025.16.018
TI Formulation rules and main health functions of Panax ginseng health food
   products based on data mining and network pharmacology
AU Luo Y/2; Xu J; Zheng J/1; Ke W; Yu Z; Xia D; Li F
TC 0
SO CHIN TRAD HERB DRUGS
PY 2025
AB objective to analyze the formulation principles of renshen ( panax ginseng )
   health food products in the market using data mining techniques and
   elucidate the mechanisms underlying p . ginseng s health promoting functions
   through network pharmacology . methods p . ginseng health food information
   was collected from the special food information query platform of state
   administration for market regulation and yaozhi . com up to december 31 ,
   2024 . formulation principles were analyzed via frequency statistics ,
   cluster analysis , and association rules . p . ginseng related active
   ingredients were retrieved from tcmsp database , etc . and potential targets
   were predicted using using swiss target prediction respectively . disease
   targets related to primary health functions were searched in genecards
   database , etc . target gene names were standardized using uniprot database
   , and the key targets were screened via venny and string databases . core
   targets were visualized via protein interaction network analysis depending
   on the degree value . gene ontology ( go ) analysis and kyoto encyclopedia
   of genes and genomes ( kegg ) enrichment pathway were performed using david
   database . results a total of 951 p . ginseng health food products were
   included . non herbal ingredients ( 140 ) and herbal ingredients ( 137 )
   were identified . among them , tonifying deficiency drugs are the main ones
   , which can be roughly divided into qi tonifying , blood tonifying , yin
   tonifying and yang tonifying . the nature of the drugs is mainly warm and
   mild , and the taste is mainly sweet . meanwhile , the attributed meridians
   mostly belonged to the five viscera , including kidney , liver , spleen ,
   lung , heart . capsules were the most common dosage form , with fatigue
   relief and immunity enhancement as the top two functions . p . ginseng had
   292 key targets and 10 core targets for alleviating physical fatigue . it
   also had 535 key targets and 10 core targets for enhancing immunity . p .
   ginseng exerted the effects of alleviating physical fatigue and enhancing
   immunity through signal pathways such as phosphatidylinositol
   3-hydroxykinase ( pi3k ) /protein kinase b ( akt ) and mitogen activated
   protein kinase ( mapk ) . conclusion the formulation principles of market
   available p . ginseng health food products were obtained through data mining
   and network pharmacology techniques , and the potential targets and pathways
   for alleviating physical fatigue and enhancing immunity were preliminarily
   explored . these findings provide ideas and reference value for the
   subsequent development of p . ginseng health food products . 2025 ,
   editorial office of chinese traditional and herbal drugs
DE data mining; enhance immunity; formulation rules; health food; network
   pharmacology; panax ginseng c a mey; relieve physical fatigue
ID ginseng extract; mitogen activated protein kinase; phosphatidylinositol 3
   kinase; protein kinase b; article; body meridian; cluster analysis;
   controlled study; data base; data mining; fatigue; gene ontology; gene
   targeting; ginseng; health food; heart; immunity; kegg; kidney; liver; lung;
   microcapsule; nonhuman; prediction; protein interaction; qi; reference
   value; spleen; systems pharmacology; viscera

---

UT 946
AR Mir MA, 2026, COGENT FOOD AGRI, V12, DOI 10.1080/23311932.2025.2606439
TI Artificial intelligence applications in food science: a review of cutting-
   edge technologies
AU Mir MA; Zaidi N; Chang SK; Abdelli N; Andrews K
TC 1
SO COGENT FOOD AGRI
PY 2026
AB the food industry is experiencing a transformation in its production ,
   processing , quality evaluation , safety evaluation , and supply chain
   management due to the emergence of artificial intelligence ( ai ) . the
   review also addresses new methodologies for complex food image analysis and
   predictive modeling , including transformer based models , transfer learning
   , and reinforcement learning . while there is tremendous potential for ai to
   improve the efficiency , accuracy , and decision making within food systems
   globally , these benefits are limited by issues with the integration and
   quality of data , regulatory compliance , and scalability across regional
   and global supply chains . the systematic review provides a pathway for the
   development of safer , more sustainable and reliable food systems that may
   arise from ai including federated learning , hybrid intelligence ,
   personalized nutrition , and ai enabled 3d/4d food printing
DE artificial intelligence; expert systems; food; models; sustainability

---

UT 947
AR Karegowda AG, 2025, INT CONF SOFTW SYST TECHNOL SSITCON, DOI
   10.1109/SSITCON66133.2025.11342023
TI State-of-the-Art Deep Learning Based Classification of Food Grains
AU Karegowda AG; Chidananda GP; Bhat S; Pushpalatha KR; Leena Rani A
TC 0
SO INT CONF SOFTW SYST TECHNOL SSITCON
PY 2025
AB the manual inspection process used in traditional grain sorting and
   classification systems is labor intensive , timeconsuming , and prone to
   human mistakes . convolutional neural network ( nn ) , one of the key
   developments in deep learning ( dl ) , has completely changed image
   identification tasks by providing strong tools for automating feature
   extraction and enhancing classification accuracy . this paper explores the
   classification of 10 cereal grain varieties using cnn based models using
   intricate spatial patterns . using a primary dataset of 800 images , 4 cnn
   models were trained , including densenet121 , vgg16 , xception , and
   mobilenet . the dataset was preprocessed using image resizing and
   augmentation and the models performance was assessed using recall , accuracy
   , and precision . the results confirms that mobilenet is the most effective
   in differentiating various grain categories , with a maximum accuracy of
   92.67 % followed by densenet with accuracy of 83.68 % . this study
   demonstrates cnns potential for precise food grain classification and can be
   adopted for smart inventory management in grocery shops reducing cost and
   manpower
DE classification; densenet121; food grains; transfer learning; vgg16; xception
   and mobilenet
ID convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; grain ( agricultural
   product ); image processing; inventory control; classification system;
   densenet121; food grain; inspection process; manual inspection; sorting
   system; state of the art; transfer learning; vgg16; xception and mobilenet;
   classification ( of information )

---

UT 948
AR Li H/2, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V161, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105029
TI The integration of machine learning into proteomics advances food
   authentication and adulteration control
AU Li H/2; Mo H; Song Y-C; Chen G/2; Wu C-E; Zhu F-Y
TC 8
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : the escalating frequency of global food fraud poses a serious
   threat to food safety , necessitating the development of effective
   countermeasures . machine learning ( ml ) , as a cutting edge technology ,
   has greatly bolstered conventional methods in advancing food safety .
   proteomics , a high throughput tool , is extensively utilized for
   comprehensive understandings of food authentication and adulteration
   detection . however , integrating ml into proteomics is both indispensable
   and fraught with challenges . scope and approach : the primary objective of
   this review is to delve into the optimization of food proteomics required
   for seamless ml integration , drawing insights from its applications in food
   authentication and adulteration control . subsequently , we aim to
   underscore recent studies that have harnessed ml assisted proteomics for
   enhancing food safety . lastly , we evaluate the potential applications of
   advanced ml integration within proteomics methodologies . key findings and
   conclusions : while ml assisted proteomics is a rapidly evolving field that
   has yet to become standard practice in food science or industry , recent
   applications have demonstrated its capacity to enhance the efficiency and
   accuracy of food proteomics analysis when combined with ml . moreover , the
   integration of ml into proteomics methodologies promises further
   advancements in model depth and robustness , underscoring the immense
   potential of ml assisted proteomics in safeguarding food safety in the
   future
DE adulteration; food authentication; food safety; machine learning; proteomics
ID adversarial machine learning; adulteration; conventional methods; cutting
   edge technology; food adulterations; food authentications; food safety; high
   throughput; integrating machines; machine learning; proteomics; food
   ingredients

---

UT 949
AR Agarwal M, 2025, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V18, P172, DOI
   10.1007/s12161-024-02701-x
TI Development of IoT Enabled Deep Learning Model for Indian Food
   Classification: An Approach Based on Differential Evaluation
AU Agarwal M; Dwivedi AK; Hazra D; Gupta SK/1; Garg D/1
TC 4
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2025
AB due to its extensive use in several areas , deep learning has attracted much
   interest in the past 10 years . furthermore , decision making applications
   for iot devices are required , and the number of such devices is growing
   exponentially . conversely , iot devices are subject to resource constraints
   such as limited power , memory , and computation power . as a result , deep
   learning models that require less storage space and have a shorter inference
   time are more popular than traditional models . in the proposed article , we
   have discussed a differential evaluation based approach for optimizing the
   storage space with a significant decrease in inference time without
   compromising the accuracy too much . we used an openly available indian food
   dataset for the experimental work , using popular pre trained architectures
   for classification purposes . we then compress the trained models using the
   differential evaluation approach . the simulation results show that the
   vgg16 architecture is compressed by 46.15 % , with a decrease in precision
   of 1.91 %
DE deep learning; differential evolution; inference time; neural network;
   storage space
ID adversarial machine learning; deep reinforcement learning; decisions
   makings; deep learning; differential evaluation; differential evolution;
   inference time; learning models; neural networks; power; resource
   constraint; storage spaces; contrastive learning

---

UT 950
AR Lucantoni L, 2025, PROC I-ESA CONF, V12, P39, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-93995-2_4
TI Artificial Intelligence Within Food Processing Industry with the Scope of
   Enhancing Workplace Safety: A Literature Review
AU Lucantoni L; Marcucci G; Ciarapica FE
TC 0
SO PROC I-ESA CONF
PY 2025
AB the pursuit of efficiency and productivity in the food processing industry
   often requires advanced machinery , complex procedures , and various
   potential hazards , highlighting the critical importance of workplace safety
   . accidents and injuries not only can compromise the quality of products and
   the well being of consumers , but it may also jeopardize the safety of
   workers . within this framework , the utilization of artificial intelligence
   emerges as a promising solution to mitigate workplace hazards and create a
   safer environment for human operators . this research paper aims at
   providing a literature review in the present topic : how artificial
   intelligence can reduce workplace hazards in the food processing industry .
   initially , the methodology employed for this literature review is outlined
   . subsequently , an exhaustive examination is presented to generate
   bibliometric maps and tables that succinctly outline the principal
   scientific patterns within this subject matter , utilizing the assistance of
   the vosviewer software , which is also introduced
DE artificial intelligence; food processing; literature review; vosviewer;
   workplace safety

---

UT 951
AR [Anonymous], 2025, FOOD ENG REV, V17, P127, DOI 10.1007/s12393-024-09385-3
TI A Comprehensive Review of Advanced Deep Learning Approaches for Food
   Freshness Detection
TC 32
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2025
AB this comprehensive review highlights the significant strides made in the
   field of food freshness detection through the integration of deep learning
   and imaging techniques . by leveraging advanced neural networks ,
   researchers have developed innovative methodologies that enhance the
   accuracy and efficiency of freshness monitoring . the fusion of various
   imaging modalities , with sophisticated deep learning algorithms has enabled
   more precise detection of quality attributes and spoilage indicators . this
   multidimensional approach not only improves the reliability of freshness
   assessments but also provides a more holistic view of condition of the food
   . additionally , the review underscores the growing potential for these
   technologies to be applied in real time monitoring systems , offering
   valuable insights for both producers and consumers . the advancements
   discussed pave the way for future research and development , emphasizing the
   need for continued innovation in integrating these technologies to address
   the challenges of food safety and quality assurance in an increasingly
   complex and dynamic market
DE data integration; food quality; imaging technique; internet of things ( iot
   ); sensor fusion
ID food quality; freshness monitoring; imaging modality; innovative
   methodologies; internet of thing; learning approach; multi-dimensional
   approach; neural networks; quality attributes; sensor fusion

---

UT 952
AR Agrawal A, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2699 CCIS, P332, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-08260-2_24
TI Smart Food Analysis: Machine Learning Model for Food Adulteration Detection
   and Pricing
AU Agrawal A; Hingnikar M; Wankhade S; Sakhare A; Sarode J
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB food adulteration is the problem most general in the food industry and
   affects quality and safety of consumables taken by masses . honey is one of
   the treasured natural resources and is very often adulterated by mixing
   cheaper materials like sugar syrups that because grave concern on health and
   confidence of consumers . the paper provides a cross cutting approach at the
   detection of honey adulteration by using two of the most complex advanced ml
   techniques : gbm and rl . we shall attempt to design the model not only to
   detect adulteration in the honey but predict at which price the honey could
   be sold in the market . the inclusion of rl enables the model to adaptively
   optimize the learning process to present high accuracy and efficiency . with
   the goal of improving food safety with a real time detection system that is
   both economy scale and cost effective , this project can be used effectively
   by either producers or regulators or consumers
DE gbm ( gradient boosting machine ); machine learning ( ml ); reinforcement
   learning ( rl )
ID accident prevention; adaptive boosting; agri-food; cost effectiveness; food
   products; food safety; learning systems; food adulterations; food analysis;
   food industries; gradient boosting; gradient boosting machine; machine
   learning; machine learning models; machine learning; reinforcement learning;
   reinforcement learnings; reinforcement learning

---

UT 953
AR Grigsby-Calage C, 2025, J AGRIC ECON, DOI 10.1111/ajae.70025
TI The varying effects of dollar stores on food access: A machine learning
   analysis
AU Grigsby-Calage C; Mullally C; Volpe R; Kropp J
TC 0
SO J AGRIC ECON
PY 2025
AB dollar store proliferation across the united states since the early 2000s
   has prompted numerous communities to enact policies restricting their growth
   . motivated by policy concerns about reduced food access , we investigate
   whether dollar store entry reduces access to grocery stores , measured by
   the presence of grocery stores near households . we find significant effects
   in urban block groups that experience dollar store entry with a single
   grocery store at baseline , constituting 14 % of treated urban block groups
   from 2006 to 2020 . urban area impacts are strongly correlated with the
   black population share , poverty rate , dependence on public assistance ,
   and levels of vacant housing and vehicle access . rural area effects are
   negligible or zero in our main analyzes , though incorporating smaller
   retailers in our food access definition reveals modest but significant
   impacts . food access concerns driving dollar store policies may be valid in
   specific communities . 2025 agricultural and applied economics association .
DE chain retail; dollar stores; food access; machine learning

---

UT 954
AR Zahoor I, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF, P1, DOI
   10.1201/9781032633602
TI Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry: Enhancing Quality and Safety
AU Zahoor I; Wani SA; Ganaie TA
TC 4
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF
PY 2025
AB in this changing world of food processing and handling , efficiency and
   safety are paramount . artificial intelligence in the food industry :
   enhancing quality and safety offers a groundbreaking exploration of how
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) technologies can address these critical needs
   . this book explores the transformative potential of ai , machine learning (
   ml ) , and deep learning ( dl ) algorithms in revolutionizing the food
   industry . by overcoming the limitations of human involvement , ai ensures a
   more reliable demand supply chain and enhances food safety . as the global
   population grows and food consumption reaches unprecedented levels , the
   demand for innovative solutions is urgent . this book demonstrates how
   intelligent systems can accurately assess food quality , implement control
   mechanisms , categorize foods , and conduct predictive analyzes . such
   advancements are reshaping sectors , including dairy , bakery , beverages ,
   and fruits and vegetables , making this an indispensable guide for food
   production and safety professionals . it explores several cutting edge
   topics such as the role of ml and computer vision in the agri food industry
   , the potential of 3d printing , and the integration of ai with sensory
   technologies like electronic noses , electronic tongues , and near infrared
   spectroscopy . these insights highlight how ai can significantly enhance
   food quality and productivity , benefiting both consumers and industry
   players . artificial intelligence in the food industry not only showcases
   current advancements but also emphasizes the need for ongoing research and
   innovation . by inviting readers to explore ai s transformative potential in
   food production and service , this book ensures a safer , more efficient ,
   and sustainable future for the food industry . a vital resource for
   researchers , scientists , and professionals in the food industry , this
   book presents comprehensive information on ml techniques to improve food
   quality , ai applications in pesticide management , food inspection ,
   grading using image processing , and the use of robots for food safety and
   warehouse management
ID accident prevention; agri-food; chemical contamination; electronic nose;
   food industry; food processing; food safety; food supply; machine learning;
   near infrared spectroscopy; predictive analytics; supply chains; warehouses;
   artificial intelligence technologies; demand supplies; food industries; food
   production; food quality; food safety; global population; handling
   efficiency; machine learning; quality and safeties; infrared devices

---

UT 955
AR Tapkire M, 2025, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V62, P1164, DOI
   10.1007/s13197-024-06158-y
TI Gluten identification from food images using advanced deep learning and
   transfer learning methods
AU Tapkire M; Arun V; Lavanya MS; Shashidhar R
TC 2
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB food image recognition has become an essential application in computer
   vision , with significant implications for dietary management , particularly
   for individuals with specific dietary restrictions . this paper shows a
   novel approach for gluten image classification , designed to assist
   individuals with celiac disease in identifying gluten containing foods . our
   proposed model leverages a convolutional neural network ( cnn ) architecture
   , specifically utilizing a efficientnet pretrained model , to accurately
   identify and classify food images . in the proposed model we utilized a
   curated dataset from the food101 dataset , selecting 20,000 images focused
   on common food recipes . we used the efficientnet pretrained model ,
   achieving a training accuracy of 99.02 % and a validation accuracy of 98.38
   % . the model was further evaluated on 2000 test images , obtaining an
   accuracy of 99 % . the data was meticulously labeled to ensure high quality
   training as well as testing processes . our results demonstrate the model s
   effectiveness in gluten classification , highlighting its potential utility
   for celiac patients . this work contributes to the growing field of food
   image recognition and offers a valuable tool for dietary management in
   celiac patients . association of food scientists and technologists ( india )
   2024 .
DE convolutional neural networks ( cnn ); efficientnet; gluten image
   classification; transfer learning
ID convolutional neural networks; celiac disease; convolutional neural network;
   dietary management; efficientnet; food image; gluten image classification;
   images classification; neural network architecture; transfer learning;
   transfer learning methods; food ingredients

---

UT 956
AR Su Z, 2025, IEEE TRANS CONSUM ELECTRON, V71, P6829, DOI
   10.1109/TCE.2024.3476341
TI FoodFlavorNet: A Multimodal Deep Learning Model for Food Flavor Recognition
AU Su Z; Shen J/1; Zhou Q/2; Yong B
TC 5
SO IEEE TRANS CONSUM ELECTRON
PY 2025
AB food plays an vital role in our daily life . with the development of
   computer science technology , there is an increasing emphasis on enhancing
   food related experiences through human food interaction ( hfi ) , a subfield
   of human computer interaction ( hci ) , dedicated to improve interactions
   between humans and food . however , existing studies often focus on
   recommendations based on user data , neglecting the mining of food intrinsic
   properties the critical role of flavor in determining food preferences and
   experiences , in this paper , we propose a multimodal deep learning model
   named foodflavornet , to implement food flavor recognition in hci . in this
   model , we design a cross attention fusion module ( cafm ) to extract text
   feature and make fusion with image features extracted by convolutional
   neural network ( cnn ) , to recognize the flavor characteristics of food .
   this model is designed for hci applications , where users can capture food
   images and input ingredient information to a server with model inference to
   botain detailed flavor recognition results , thus enhancing the overall
   dining experience . the experimental results indicate that the model is
   effective for food flavor recognition , demonstrating the potential of deep
   learning in hci applications , offering a new solution for food flavor
   recognition and advancing the development of both hfi fields
DE cross attention fusion module; food recognition; foodflavornet; human
   computer interaction
ID convolutional neural networks; computer interaction; cross attention fusion
   module; daily lives; food flavors; food recognition; foodflavornet; fusion
   modules; human food interactions; learning models; multi-modal; food
   ingredients

---

UT 957
AR Garg R, 2025, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V142, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2025.107497
TI An architecture for acrylamide detection in carbohydrate-rich food products
   using deep learning method
AU Garg R; Singla N
TC 6
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2025
AB the alarming issue of acrylamide formation in carbohydrate rich snacks ,
   notably in over fried potato chips and fries , has emerged as a critical
   concern . traditional methods of acrylamide detection are plagued by
   limitations such as time intensity , labor requirements , and the need for
   specialized expertise . in response to these challenges , a novel cnn
   architecture is developed for acrylamide detection in carbohydrate rich food
   products . the dataset used in the study was curated by capturing images of
   potato chips made from jawahar potatoes fried in palm oil . the images were
   labeled using uplc ms chromatography for precise categorization and analysis
   . the proposed cnn model has seven layers with 40,114 trainable parameters ,
   featuring consecutive conv2d layers for wider receptive field , batch
   normalization , max pooling for dimensionality reduction , a dense layer
   with relu activation , overfitting prevention , and a final classification
   layer with sigmoid activation for binary output
DE acrylamide; carbohydrate-rich food; convolution neural network; deep cnn
   models; xgboost

---

UT 958
AR Huang Y, 2026, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V19, DOI 10.1007/s12161-026-03034-7
TI Image-Based Deep Learning Model for Food Classification and Detection
AU Huang Y; Shah AA; Xu S/1; Wu C/1; Yan S
TC 0
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2026
AB the intelligent management and reasonable nutrition of food depend on the
   continuous improvement of cultivar discrimination technology . a model for
   food classification and detection based on image deep learning is proposed ,
   which is used to discriminate hundreds of commonly used foods such as fruits
   , vegetables , and meat . we use smartphones to collect food images and form
   a dataset under uncontrolled lighting and camera parameters such as focal
   length and camera stability . it also discriminates partially occluded
   objects with similar features and achieves good results . testing on a
   detection dataset yielded a map value of 94.35 % and an inference time of
   27.53 ms , with a slight increase in parameter scale . further enhancements
   in feature fusion and loss function testing showed that idnet , integrating
   both bifpn and wiou , achieved the best overall performance with a map value
   of 96.24 % and an inference time of only 29.86 ms . experiments are
   conducted using diverse foods placed in the refrigerator , confirming its
   superiority
DE attention mechanism; deep learning-based food detection; feature fusion;
   food inspection
ID cameras; feature extraction; image classification; learning systems;
   statistical tests; attention mechanisms; continuous improvements; deep
   learning-based food detection; features fusions; food detection; food
   inspection; image-based; intelligent management; learning models; smart
   phones; deep learning

---

UT 959
AR Yu W/1, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V156, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104855
TI Research progress on the artificial intelligence applications in food safety
   and quality management
AU Yu W/1; Ouyang Z; Zhang Y/4; Lu Y; Wei C; Tu Y; He B
TC 48
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : the maintenance of food safety standards is crucial for
   protecting public health and the economic integrity of the food industry .
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) is a groundbreaking tool with great potential
   in the field of food safety . however , its practical applications still
   require further exploration to fully unlock its benefits . scope and
   approach : this review synthesizes the applications of ai in food safety ,
   focusing on microbial detection , contamination prediction , and
   traceability within the food supply chain . additionally , the review
   discusses ai applications in food safety regulation , including risk
   assessment , predictive modeling , and decision support systems . key
   findings and conclusions : the integration of ai technologies into food
   safety practices not only enhances traditional methods of risk management
   but also fosters a more proactive approach to identifying and mitigating
   potential hazards . by leveraging ai capabilities , the food industry can
   significantly improve safety outcomes , reduce operational inefficiencies ,
   and bolster consumer trust . the continued evolution of ai in this domain
   promises to drive innovative solutions , paving the way for smarter , more
   resilient food safety systems that prioritize prevention and proactive
   management
DE artificial intelligence; contamination detection; food safety; machine
   learning; risk assessment; traceability
ID contamination detection; food industries; food quality; food supply chain;
   food safety; machine learning; microbials; risks assessments; safety
   standard; traceability

---

UT 960
AR Descarten RO, 2025, J INNOV IMAGE PROCESS, V7, P1482, DOI
   10.36548/jiip.2025.4.021
TI DASS-Net: A Multi-Branch Aesthetic– Spectral–Semantic Deep Learning Model
   for Food Spoilage Detection in Hospitality Operations
AU Descarten RO; Treceñe JKD
TC 0
SO J INNOV IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2025
AB food freshness and food safety in the hospitality industry are , to date ,
   mainly dependent on visual observation , where human visual interpretation
   does not always successfully identify the less obvious signs of early food
   spoilage . in this work , we introduce dass net , a novel hybrid deep
   network with a trilinear structure and three separate task focused branches
   : ( 1 ) the rgb esthetic branch , ( 2 ) the lab spectral branch , and ( 3 )
   the vision transformer vit small semantic branch , used together for
   simultaneous analysis of food image based texture degradation , color
   deviation , and overall food image related semantic dependencies on a global
   scale . each of the network s task focused branches projects its outputs to
   a unitary latent space and further refines them with multi head attention
   and adaptive joint processing with a learnable gated fusion module . to
   train dass net , a dual objective training approach with class weighted and
   smoothed cross entropy loss and contrastive learning with mixup and cutmix
   data augmentations is used . eight class classification experiments on fresh
   and spoiled food samples of bread , dairy products , fruits , and vegetables
   are conducted to evaluate the performance of dass net , providing a
   validation accuracy of 94.33 % , which demonstrates a 23.18 % and 25.83 %
   relative improvement over resnet 18 with lab and rgb visual channels ,
   respectively . additionally , the classification model yielded a minimum
   misclassification rate of 13.30 % for spoiled items identified as fresh ,
   which clearly marks an important characteristic related to safety issues .
   the complementarity between the spectral and esthetic features has also been
   proven by the grad cam visualizations of the dual branch network , where the
   most confusion occurs in the case of dairy products with negligible surface
   decay , as revealed by the analysis of failure cases . the results
   explicitly confirm that the developed dass net delivers a safe , efficient ,
   and scalable vision solution applicable to kitchen intelligence and
   hospitality control scenarios . 2025 inventive research organization .
DE food spoilage detection; hospitality management; spectral esthetic fusion;
   supervised contrastive learning; vision transformer

---

UT 961
AR Kurniawan MS, 2025, PROC INT CONF WIREL TELEMAT ICWT, DOI
   10.1109/ICWT66752.2025.11181841
TI Cultural Food Preference Prediction Using Machine Learning: The Case of
   Karedok Leunca in Sundanese Society
AU Kurniawan MS; Ismail N; Pratondo A
TC 3
SO PROC INT CONF WIREL TELEMAT ICWT
PY 2025
AB karedok leunca is one of indonesia s traditional dishes with a distinct
   bitter taste , especially popular among the sundanese people . this study
   analyzed public preferences using survey data from 290 respondents , with
   54.5 % expressing a liking for the dish . fifteen features were examined ,
   including sensory tolerance , eating habits , cultural background , and food
   related attitudes . the most influential factors were bitterness tolerance ,
   preference for raw vegetables , traditional food consumption , spiciness
   preference , and familiarity with uncooked dishes . the random forest model
   achieved 76.21 % accuracy using stratified k fold validation , while the svm
   model with polynomial and rbf kernels reached 86.21 % and 84.83 % accuracy
   respectively , outperforming the linear ( 76.90 % ) and sigmoid ( 72.76 % )
   kernels . these findings highlight the value of data driven approaches in
   understanding , preserving , and promoting traditional culinary heritage
   based on local preference patterns and behavioral insights 2025 ieee .
DE karedok leunca; machine learning; random forest; sundanese community; svm
ID agri-food; behavioral research; food chemistry; food ingredients; food
   supply; machine learning; random forests; eating habits; food preference;
   indonesia; karedok leuncum; machine learning; public preferences; random
   forests; sundanese community; survey data; svm; learning systems

---

UT 962
AR Akçura M, 2026, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V19, DOI 10.1007/s12161-026-03142-4
TI Correction: Classification of Proso Millet (Panicum miliaceum L.) Seeds
   Based on Physical and Nutritional Approaches Through Machine Learning and
   Data Mining Algorithms (Food Analytical Methods, (2026), 19, 5, (161),
   10.1007/s12161-026-03077-w)
AU Akçura M; Poyraz İ
TC 0
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2026
AB in the originally published article , a wording error was identified in the
   results and discussion section under the subsection evaluation of model
   performances , in paragraph 1 , the third sentence . the term ' fivefold
   cross validation ' was incorrectly stated . the correct term is ' ten fold
   cross validation . ' the original article has been corrected

---

UT 963
AR Ghazizade-Fard M, 2025, J ENV MANAG, V393, DOI 10.1016/j.jenvman.2025.126985
TI Anaerobic co-digestion of wastewater sludge and food waste: A machine
   learning approach to process modeling and optimization
AU Ghazizade-Fard M; Koupaie EH
TC 6
SO J ENV MANAG
PY 2025
AB due to the complex microbial interactions in anaerobic co digestion ( an cod
   ) , predicting process outcomes remains challenging . this study applies
   machine learning ( ml ) to model and optimize the co digestion of wastewater
   sludge and food waste ( fw ) . a generalized , transferable framework is
   developed that reflects real world operational constraints by isolating the
   mixing ratio as the primary input variable under fixed digester conditions ,
   an approach aligned with full scale facility limitations . unlike prior
   studies limited to data from single facilities , this model is trained on a
   diverse dataset compiled from multiple literature sources , enhancing its
   applicability across varying sludge and fw characteristics . three ml models
   , random forest ( rf ) , xgboost , and artificial neural networks ( ann ) ,
   were trained to predict methane yield and assess the influence of feedstock
   and operational parameters . regularized ann outperformed other models ,
   reducing overfitting , and achieved an r2 of 0.86 and nrmse of 0.31. the
   trained model was then coupled with a global optimization algorithm ( dual
   annealing ) to identify mixing ratios that maximize methane yield based on
   feedstock properties . optimization across seven candidate points , spanning
   a range of solid contents , revealed that methane yield scales with
   feedstock quality and process intensity . high vs sludge and fw mixtures
   under mesophilic continuous operation yielded up to 510 ml / g vs , while
   inorganic rich , low vs sludge limited yields to 130 ml / g vs . medium
   quality mixtures reproduced experimental trends , exceeding 300 ml / g vs .
   predicted yields ranged from 134 to 510 ml / g vs , with optimal mixing
   ratios varying from 0.99 % to 88 % vs across scenarios
DE anaerobic co-digestion; food waste; machine learning; modeling;
   optimization; wastewater sludge
ID anaerobiosis; food; food loss and waste; machine learning; methane; neural
   networks computer; sewage; waste disposal fluid; wastewater; anaerobic
   digestion; global optimization; machine learning; methane; mixing; neural
   networks; sludge digestion; methane; anaerobic co-digestion; food waste;
   machine learning approaches; machine learning; methane yield; mixing ratios;
   modeling; neural networks; optimizations; wastewater sludge; algorithm;
   anaerobic digestion; dataset; food waste; machine learning; mixing ratio;
   optimization; wastewater treatment; anaerobic digestion; article; artificial
   neural network; comparative study; controlled study; decision tree; food
   waste; learning curve; machine learning; microbial community; nonhuman;
   predictive model; process optimization; random forest; retention time;
   sludge digestion; waste water management; xgboost algorithm; anaerobic
   growth; food; food waste; procedures; sewage; wastewater; feedstocks;
   learning systems

---

UT 964
AR Kurdyś-Kujawska A, 2025, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V270, P5416, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2025.10.009
TI Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry: Adoption, Technologies,
   Barriers - The Example of Poland
AU Kurdyś-Kujawska A; Zarȩbski P; Chamier-Gliszczyński N
TC 1
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB the aim of the study was to determine the degree of use of ai technology in
   the food industry in poland and to identify key barriers related to its
   implementation . the analysis is based on data collected in the official
   statistics of the central statistical office in poland and includes
   enterprises involved in the production of food products , production of
   beverages and production of tobacco products , with at least 10 employees .
   using the polish example , this work provides insight into the specifics of
   ai adoption in the food industry , identifying both the potential and
   challenges facing its further development . based on the analysis of trends
   from 2021-2024 , the study presents prospects for the future development of
   ai in this key sector for the economy . the analysis of the collected
   material indicates that the use of ai in the polish food industry is
   increasing , but often involves the use of ready made commercial solutions .
   the development of own technologies is less common . the predominant ai
   technology being implemented in the food industry is that of process
   automation and decision support , with the use of technologies such as
   natural language generation and voice recognition increasing . ai
   technologies are most often implemented in areas related to business
   management . the prospects for the development of ai in the polish food
   industry are positive . however , the pace and scope of this development
   will largely depend on the ability to overcome existing barriers ,
   especially those related to the lack of human resources and knowledge , high
   costs , it infrastructure , and the regulation of legal regulations
   regarding the implementation and use of ai technologies in business
DE artificial intelligence; food inustry; poland
ID decision support systems; food industry; food products; laws and
   legislation; personnel; ai technologies; food industries; food inustry;
   further development; official statistics; poland; process decisions; product
   production; statistical offices; technology barriers; artificial
   intelligence

---

UT 965
AR Taheri S, 2025, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V65, P6045, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2024.2435597
TI Emerging perspectives on analytical techniques and machine learning for food
   metabolomics in the era of industry 4.0: a systematic review
AU Taheri S; Andrade JCD; Conte-Junior CA
TC 17
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2025
AB this review systematically explores the emerging perspectives on analytical
   techniques and machine learning applications in food metabolomics , with a
   focus on their roles in the era of industry 4.0. the study emphasizes the
   utilization of chromatography mass spectrometry and proton nuclear magnetic
   resonance spectroscopy as primary tools for metabolic profiling ,
   highlighting their respective strengths and limitations . lc ms , known for
   its high sensitivity and specificity , faces challenges such as complex data
   interpretation and the need for advanced computational tools .1h nmr offers
   reproducibility and quantitative accuracy but struggles with lower
   sensitivity compared to mass spectrometry . the review also delves into the
   integration of multivariate data analysis techniques like principal
   component analysis and partial least squares discriminant analysis , which
   enhance data dimensionality reduction and pattern recognition , yet require
   careful validation to avoid overfitting . furthermore , the application of
   machine learning algorithms , including random forests and support vector
   machines , is discussed in the context of improving classification and
   predictive tasks in food metabolomics . practical applications of these
   technologies are demonstrated in areas such as quality control , nutritional
   studies , and food adulteration detection . the review emphasizes the need
   for standardization in methodologies and the development of more accessible
   and cost effective analytical workflows . future research directions include
   enhancing the sensitivity of 1h nmr , integrating metabolomics with other
   omics technologies , and fostering data sharing to build comprehensive
   reference libraries . this review aims to provide a comprehensive and
   critical overview of the current advancements and future potentials of
   analytical techniques and machine learning in food metabolomics , aligning
   with the goals of industry 4.0
DE data processing; food metabolomics; industry 40; machine learning;
   metabolomics
ID chromatography liquid; food analysis; humans; machine learning; magnetic
   resonance spectroscopy; mass spectrometry; metabolomics; principal component
   analysis; reproducibility of results; dimensionality reduction; network
   security; nuclear magnetic resonance; support vector machines;
   chromatography-mass spectrometry; food metabolomic; high sensitivity;
   machine learning applications; machine learning; metabolic profiling;
   metabolomics; proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy; systematic
   review; food analysis; human; liquid chromatography; machine learning; mass
   spectrometry; metabolomics; nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy;
   principal component analysis; procedures; reproducibility; nuclear magnetic
   resonance spectroscopy

---

UT 966
AR Amiri A, 2026, J FOOD QUAL, V2026, DOI 10.1155/jfq/2405451
TI Leveraging Artificial Intelligence for Enhanced Food Security: Innovations
   in Farm and Warehouse Management
AU Amiri A
TC 0
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2026
AB global food security demands transformative solutions integrating advanced
   digital technologies into agricultural production and supply chain
   management . this manuscript reviews how artificial intelligence ( ai ) is
   revolutionizing farm operations and logistics by integrating ai enabled
   warehouse automation with cross sector data . advanced machine learning
   algorithms , deep learning models , and predictive analytics are
   increasingly applied to optimize inventory management , forecast demand ,
   and ensure food safety . in the warehouse sector , ai systems help prevent
   overstocking and understocking by synchronizing inventory levels with
   consumption trends , weather , and soil conditions , thereby minimizing
   wastage and improving supply chain responsiveness . ai applications in
   agriculture , ranging from precision irrigation to pest detection using
   machine vision , significantly improve crop yield prediction and disease
   management . these advances are further strengthened by integrating cloud
   computing services that facilitate seamless data sharing between farm fields
   and warehouse operations . ai driven decision support systems aggregate big
   data from diverse sources , enabling stakeholders to monitor environmental
   conditions , optimize resource allocation , and adjust real time supply
   chain logistics . in both production and storage environments , robotics and
   automation are increasingly used to translate ai outputs into physical
   actions streamlining repetitive tasks , improving throughput , and
   strengthening end to end traceability . at the same time , scaling ai beyond
   pilots remains constrained by practical and governance barriers , including
   inconsistent data quality across stakeholders , exposure to cyber threats ,
   substantial capital and maintenance requirements , and societal concerns
   related to privacy , accountability , and labor transitions . building on
   these considerations , this review proposes an implementation oriented
   framework that links data acquisition , modeling , and monitoring choices to
   measurable outcomes in efficiency , sustainability , and transparency across
   agri food operations , with the overarching goal of improving system level
   resilience
DE artificial intelligence; food security; precision agriculture; smart farming
ID agri-food; agricultural machinery; big data; data sharing; deep learning;
   digital storage; food safety; food security; food supply; learning systems;
   precision agriculture; supply chain management; supply chains; warehouses;
   agricultural productions; chain management; digital technologies; farm
   management; food quality; food security; global food security; precision
   agriculture; smart farming; warehouse management; predictive analytics

---

UT 967
AR Zhou W, 2026, FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS, V156, P560, DOI
   10.1016/j.fbp.2026.02.012
TI Smart food comminution using deep learning and machine vision: Progress and
   prospects
AU Zhou W; Zhang M/3; Tang T; Bhandari B; Li C/1
TC 0
SO FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS
PY 2026
AB the application of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in food comminution is
   rapidly shifting from traditional processing methods to intelligent systems
   . ai can enhance milling efficiency , particle uniformity , and product
   quality , while reducing energy consumption and the need for manual
   intervention . this paper systematically reviews the pivotal roles of
   machine learning , deep learning , and computer vision in food comminution ,
   highlighting their innovative applications in raw material classification ,
   process optimization , particle size monitoring , and powder quality
   analysis . it further explores practical scenarios such as field monitoring
   , pre processing of raw materials , dynamic equipment parameter adjustment ,
   and real time quality assessment . in addition , the potential integration
   of food powders with 3d printing technology is discussed in the context of
   intelligent manufacturing . finally , the paper summarizes current
   challenges and proposes feasible solutions for future development . 2026
   institution of chemical engineers . published by elsevier ltd . all rights
   are reserved , including those for text and data mining , ai training , and
   similar technologies .
DE adulteration; artificial intelligence; classification; food comminution;
   process
ID comminution; computer vision; data mining; deep learning; energy
   utilization; intelligent systems; learning systems; machine vision; particle
   size analysis; quality control; smart manufacturing; adulteration; food
   comminution; machine learning; machine vision; manual intervention; process;
   processing method; products quality; reducing energy consumption;
   traditional processing; classification ( of information )

---

UT 968
AR Geethika A, 2026, PROC - ICSES INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART
   ELECTR SYST, DOI 10.1109/ICSES66558.2026.11479138
TI FoodFlow: A Big Data and Machine Learning Framework for Intelligent Food
   Inventory Management
AU Geethika A; Singh NK; Utkarsh D; Dhevi BL; Ramesh S
TC 0
SO PROC - ICSES INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST
PY 2026
AB food waste continues to be one of the most significant global sustainability
   challenges , with approximately onethird of all food produced globally being
   lost or wasted annually . the foodflow framework proposes a scalable big
   data and machine learning based system to optimize food inventory management
   and redistribution . the model integrates hadoop mapreduce for large scale
   distributed data preprocessing and xgboost for intelligent donor recipient
   matching with 99 % accuracy . experimental evaluation demonstrates superior
   performance compared to baseline models including random forest and logistic
   regression across multiple metrics including precision ( 98.5 % ) , recall (
   97.8 % ) , and f1score ( 98.1 % ) . the study emphasizes how data driven
   systems can reduce food waste by up to 45 % and enhance social welfare
   through smart , real time food donation management
DE big data; food donation; hadoop; inventory optimization; machine learning;
   mapreduce; sustainability; xgboost
ID food waste; information management; inventory control; learning systems;
   logistic regression; machine learning; sustainable development; food
   donation; food waste; global sustainability; hadoop; inventory management;
   inventory optimization; learning frameworks; machine learning; mapreduce;
   xgboost; big data

---

UT 969
AR Alzunaidy NA, 2026, PHARM, V19, DOI 10.3390/ph19030349
TI Machine Learning Exploration of Food-Derived Chemical Space for Potential
   Nutritional Metabolic Regulators Targeting Dipeptidyl Peptidase-4
AU Alzunaidy NA
TC 0
SO PHARM
PY 2026
AB background : dipeptidyl peptidase 4 ( dpp4 ) is a key metabolic enzyme
   involved in postprandial glucose regulation through incretin hormone
   modulation , making it an important target in nutrition and metabolic health
   research . although dietary and plant derived bioactive compounds have been
   reported to influence dpp4 , exploration of the food associated chemical
   space remains limited by its size and diversity . methods : here , we
   present an integrated computational framework combining machine learning ,
   molecular docking , and molecular dynamics simulations to prioritize dietary
   and supplemental compounds with potential interaction capacity toward dpp4 .
   supervised classification models were trained on a curated dpp4 bioactivity
   dataset and evaluated using scaffold based partitioning to ensure chemically
   realistic generalization . results : the top performing random forest model
   achieved robust performance across independent splits ( mean auc 0.889
   0.017. average precision 0.959 0.010 ) and was applied to screen 69,574 food
   derived compounds . model interpretation identified recurring heteroaromatic
   and polar substructural features associated with predicted interaction
   propensity . structure based screening further prioritized seven food
   derived compounds , including lipid associated coenzyme a derivatives ,
   which occupied the canonical dpp4 binding site with favorable docking scores
   ( 13.12 to 12.06 kcal / mol ) . extended molecular dynamics simulations (
   500 ns ) demonstrated stable binding geometries , compact hydrogen bond
   networks , and consistent engagement of key dpp4 residues , including glu205
   , glu206 , arg125 , and tyr631 . conclusions : overall , our study provides
   a scalable computational strategy for identifying bioactive dietary and
   supplemental compounds with potential relevance to metabolic regulation .
   the framework supports nutraceutical research and functional food
   development by enabling targeted experimental investigation of dietenzyme
   interactions
DE dietary supplements; dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( dpp4 ); food-derived
   compounds; machine learning identification; metabolic regulation

---

UT 970
AR Jagadeesh S, 2026, CCIC - CONTEMP COMPUT INNOV CONF, DOI
   10.1109/CCIC68129.2026.11486156
TI An Intelligent Deep Learning Framework for Automated Food Recognition and
   Calorie Estimation
AU Jagadeesh S; Dayakar R; Alleema NN; Shaffi SS; Umanesan R
TC 0
SO CCIC - CONTEMP COMPUT INNOV CONF
PY 2026
AB the rising incidence of lifestyle related diseases , along with the
   escalating demand for healthconscious dietary monitoring , has heightened
   the necessity for intelligent and automated food assessment systems . this
   study suggests a proficient method for recognizing and estimating food
   calories through the utilization of advanced deep learning and image
   processing techniques . the suggested system uses a carefully tuned
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) model that was built using pre trained
   architectures like mobilenetv2 , inceptionv3 , and efficientnetb0 to
   correctly sort food items that were captured . the optimized cnn model gets
   94.87 % accuracy in classification , 93.42 % in precision , 92.15 % in
   recall , and 92.78 % in f1-score . then , a nutritional mapping algorithm is
   used to guess the number of calories , and it gets the number right 92.33 %
   of the time . the experimental results show that the suggested system works
   well for identifying food in real time , accurately estimating calorie
   intake , and supporting smart diet monitoring . overall , the methodology
   shows promise as a way to automatically assess diets , improve lifestyles ,
   and provide preventative healthcare
DE calorie estimation; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; dietary
   tracking; food recognition; nutrition analysis; personalized recommendation
ID convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; image processing;
   nutrition; calorie estimations; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   dietary tracking; food recognition; learning frameworks; lifestyle-related
   disease; neural network model; nutrition analyze; personalized
   recommendation; convolution

---

UT 971
AR Zhang C/2, 2025, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V46, P333, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20250526-171
TI A Review of Strategies for Food Flavor Analysis Incorporating Machine
   Learning Algorithms; [结合机器学习算法的食品风味分析策略]
AU Zhang C/2; Du J; Liu W; You H; Ye Q; Fan Y; Shang X; Yao X/1; Zhu D/1; Qiao
   X
TC 1
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2025
AB food flavor is a key factor influencing consumer choice and satisfaction .
   traditional methods for food flavor analysis suffer from limitations such as
   low efficiency and strong subjectivity . in contrast , machine learning
   technology , with its powerful data processing and pattern recognition
   capabilities , offers new solutions for food flavor research . this paper
   reviews machine learning algorithms employed in food flavor research and
   flavor analysis strategies incorporating machine learning . it outlines
   commonly used analytical instruments and explores flavor analysis
   methodologies at three distinct levels : molecular structure , properties ,
   and sequence . ultimately , a reliable and comprehensive flavor analysis
   pathway has been established using existing flavor databases as
   methodological supplements . the paper also proposes improvements to address
   the shortcomings of machine learning methodologies , providing directional
   references for food flavor analysis strategies . this contributes to
   advancing the transformation and upgrading of the food industry . 2025 ,
   institution of russian academy of sciences
DE deep learning; flavor molecules; food flavor analysis strategies; machine
   learning; molecular properties; molecular sequence; molecular structure
ID data handling; deep learning; flavor compounds; food chemistry; food
   industry; food ingredients; learning algorithms; learning systems; pattern
   recognition; analysis strategies; deep learning; flavor molecule; flavor
   analysis; food flavor analyze strategy; food flavors; machine learning
   algorithms; machine learning; molecular properties; molecular sequence;
   molecular structure

---

UT 972
AR Syed MA, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2839 CCIS, P53, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-19096-3_4
TI Deep Learning for Food Security Forecasting in West and East Africa
AU Syed MA; Seif A; Interdonato R; Lavarenne J; Madec S
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB food security is a crucial global concern and a key pillar of the
   sustainable development goals ( sdg 2-zero hunger ) . to monitor food
   insecurity situations , several early warning systems are active today ,
   driven by agencies such as fao and wfp . these systems use a limited set of
   data types , e . g . , agroclimatic data and indicators extracted from
   household surveys . household surveys are expensive and time consuming , and
   by consequence not frequent , which ultimately limits the ability to provide
   timely responses in vulnerable regions . in this work , we present a deep
   learning ( dl ) framework able to classify regional food security levels
   into three main categories i . e . , poor , borderline and acceptable . the
   idea is to obtain such predictions by using openly accessible heterogeneous
   data sources , including satellite imagery , climate variables , and
   socioeconomic indicators . the proposed architecture employs multi branch
   neural network models convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) for spatial
   rasters ( population density , land use / land cover maps ) , recurrent
   neural networks for time series ( e . g . , rainfall , temperature ,
   commodity prices ) , and random forests for feature fusion that integrates
   representations extracted from the two dl branches with a set of
   conjunctural variables . we validate our approach on two african countries ,
   burkina faso and rwanda , achieving classification accuracies exceeding 85 %
   using different experimental settings . this demonstrates the potential of
   our model to support real time food security assessments at subnational
   levels , by representing an effective and affordable complement to existing
   early warning systems
DE deep learning; food security; heterogeneous data; neural networks;
   sustainable development goals
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; deep
   neural networks; economics; food security; food supply; forecasting; land
   use; population statistics; satellite imagery; sustainable development
   goals; deep learning; early warning system; east africa; food insecurity;
   food security; heterogeneous data; household surveys; neural networks;
   system use; west africa; sustainable development

---

UT 973
AR Lin Z, 2025, MACH LEARN ARTIF INTELL TOXICOL ENV HEAL, P333, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-30010-3.00009-X
TI Application of machine learning and artificial intelligence methods in food
   safety assessment
AU Lin Z; Mi K; Wu X/1
TC 0
SO MACH LEARN ARTIF INTELL TOXICOL ENV HEAL
PY 2025
AB food safety is an important area of toxicology and environmental health .
   food safety consists of chemical , microbiological , and physical food
   safety , with the former two most commonly studied and contributing to most
   food safety crises . machine learning and artificial intelligence approaches
   have substantially advanced chemical and microbiological food safety
   research and contributed to detection , mitigation , intervention , and
   prevention of food safety issues . this chapter introduces the basic
   concepts of food safety , with a focus on chemical and microbiological food
   safety . available databases and the general methodology to apply machine
   learning approaches to study food safety will be introduced . we will use
   recent studies to discuss how machine learning models have been applied to
   study different areas of food safety , including predictions of maximum
   residue limits and withdrawal times of drugs , rapid detection of foodborne
   pathogens , predictions of antibiotic resistance , source attribution of
   pathogens , and foodborne disease outbreak detection . a case study will be
   presented with step by step instructions to demonstrate how to perform a
   food safety related study using machine learning approaches . we will
   conclude this chapter with our perspectives on the current challenges and
   future research directions in this field
DE artificial intelligence; food safety; machine learning; public health
ID chemical detection; food chemistry; food microbiology; food safety; machine
   learning; artificial intelligence methods; basic concepts; environmental
   health; food safety; general methodologies; machine learning approaches;
   machine learning; safety assessments; safety issues; safety research;
   learning systems

---

UT 974
AR Ahmad A/2, 2026, FOOD REV INT, V42, P3150, DOI 10.1080/87559129.2025.2585134
TI Transforming Food Systems with Artificial Intelligence: Challenges,
   Governance, and Pathways for Sustainable Integration
AU Ahmad A/2; Murad M; Utra U; Yussof NS; Fazial FF; Lazim A; Fazry S; Law D
TC 4
SO FOOD REV INT
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is transforming global food systems by
   reshaping how food is grown , processed , distributed , and consumed . using
   machine learning , computer vision , sensor networks , and digital twins ,
   ai enables automation , precision , and real time decision making across
   precision agriculture , smart manufacturing , supply chain management , and
   personalized nutrition . these applications enhance productivity ,
   traceability , and resource efficiency , supporting sustainable development
   goals ( sdgs ) 2 , 12 , and 13. however , adoption remains uneven .
   smallholder farmers and low and middle income countries face barriers such
   as limited digital infrastructure , lack of region specific datasets , and
   minimal integration of local knowledge . these disparities intensify
   inequalities ( sdgs 1 and 10 ) and raise governance concerns about data
   privacy , algorithmic bias , and energy consumption ( sdg 16 ) . real world
   validation in diverse agroecological contexts also remains limited . unlike
   previous reviews focused mainly on technology , this paper uniquely
   integrates governance frameworks , ethical considerations , and regional
   disparities to provide a holistic understanding of ai s role in sustainable
   food systems . achieving equitable ai transformation will require
   participatory governance , open access data , targeted investments , and
   globally harmonized policies aligned with the sdgs . moving from the fourth
   industrial revolution ( ir4.0 ) to the human centered ir5.0 will further
   emphasize collaboration , transparency , and social responsibility in future
   food innovation
DE artificial intelligence; food policy; food processing; food security;
   industrial revolution; machine learning
ID data privacy; decision making; food processing; food security; food supply;
   investments; machine learning; precision agriculture; processed foods;
   public policy; smart agriculture; social aspects; sustainable development;
   computer vision sensors; food policies; food security; food system;
   industrial revolutions; machine learning; real time decision making; real
   time decision making; sensors network; sustainable integrations;
   agricultural worker; algorithm bias; artificial intelligence; automation;
   computer vision; data privacy; decision making; digital twin; energy
   consumption; food processing; food security; human; integration; investment;
   machine learning; middle income country; open access; participatory
   management; personalized nutrition; precision agriculture; review; social
   responsibility; sustainable development goal; learning systems

---

UT 975
AR Usatov IA, 2025, THEOR APPL ECOL, P30, DOI 10.25750/1995-4301-2024-4-030-039
TI Steller sea lion Eumetopias jubatus (Schreber, 1776) diet study using
   computer vision neural networks; [Исследование рациона сивуча Eumetopias
   jubatus (Schreber, 1776) с использованием нейронных сетей компьютерного
   зрения]
AU Usatov IA; Trukhanova IS; Burkanov VN; Altukhov AV
TC 0
SO THEOR APPL ECOL
PY 2025
AB we assessed the potential of using a computer vision based neural network to
   identify undigested parts of the diet in steller sea lion feces samples .
   these samples were previously examined and identified by experts . we
   studied 19 types of bones and otoliths from 13 fish species found in the
   diet samples and accurately identified by expert morphologists . each object
   was photographed against a black background in various projections using a
   microscope with a +1015 magnification . this process resulted in 1513
   photographs . to identify the undigested diet parts , we utilized the neural
   network model vgg 16 , pre trained on imagenet data containing 1.4 million
   animal and plant images . the model was trained on 1469 photographs of
   diverse food residues using the r environment and the keras package . the
   training accuracy over 60 epochs reached 99 % . we tested the model on 44
   images of steller sea lion diet objects , not used during the training
   process . the model accurately identified fish remains with 100 % accuracy .
   computer vision enables quick and precise identification of food residues ,
   reducing the analysis time and cost . it automates the identification
   process , eliminating human error . our experiment involved a small data set
   and needs further research . to improve the feeding objects identification
   accuracy , a larger data set should be used , and the model should be
   validated on additional test data . the main challenge of using computer
   vision to identify fish bones is obtaining sufficient photographs of
   different types of undigested food remains at different stages of digestion
   from all potential steller sea lion prey items . 2025 publishing house o
   kratkoe
DE computer vision; diet; neural networks; steller sea lion

---

UT 976
AR Ozlu Karahan T, 2025, J HUM NUTR DIET, V38, DOI 10.1111/jhn.70033
TI Artificial Intelligence-Based Diets: A Role in the Nutritional Treatment of
   Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease?
AU Ozlu Karahan T; Kenger EB; Yilmaz Y
TC 12
SO J HUM NUTR DIET
PY 2025
AB background : metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease (
   masld ) is a growing global health concern . effective management of this
   condition relies heavily on lifestyle modifications and dietary
   interventions . in this study , we sought to evaluate the dietary plans for
   masld generated by chatgpt ( gpt 4o ) according to current guideline
   recommendations . methods : chatgpt was used to create single day meal plans
   for 48 simulated patients with masld , tailored to individual
   characteristics such as age , gender , height , weight and transient
   elastography parameters . the plans were assessed for appropriateness
   according to disease specific guidelines . results : the mean energy content
   of the menus planned by chatgpt was 1596.9 141.5 kcal with a mean accuracy
   of 91.3 11.0 % , and fiber content was 22.0 0.6 g with a mean accuracy of
   88.1 2.5 % . however , they exhibited elevated levels of protein , fat and
   saturated fat acids . conversely , the carbohydrate content was lower .
   chatgpt recommended weight loss for obese patients but did not extend this
   advice to normal weight and overweight individuals . notably ,
   recommendations for a mediterranean diet and physical activity were absent .
   conclusions : chatgpt shows potential in developing dietary plans for masld
   management . however , discrepancies in macronutrient distributions and the
   omission of key evidence based recommendations highlight the need for
   further refinement . to enhance the effectiveness of ai tools in dietary
   recommendations , alignment with established guidelines must be improved .
   2025 the british dietetic association ltd .
DE artificial intelligence; chatgpt; guideline recommendations; metabolic
   dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; nutritional therapy
ID adult; artificial intelligence; diet; energy intake; female; humans; male;
   metabolic diseases; middle aged; non-alcoholic fatty liver disease;
   nutrition therapy; obesity; adult; artificial intelligence; caloric intake;
   complication; diet; diet therapy; etiology; female; human; male; metabolic
   disorder; middle aged; non-alcoholic fatty liver; obesity; procedures

---

UT 977
AR Purwati N, 2025, J ROBOT CONTROL, V6, P2141, DOI 10.18196/jrc.v6i5.27525
TI Computer Vision for Food Nutrition Assessment: A Bibliometric Analysis and
   Technical Review
AU Purwati N; Isnanto RR; Kartasurya MI
TC 2
SO J ROBOT CONTROL
PY 2025
AB this study examines the latest trends , challenges , and advances in food
   image segmentation and computer vision based nutritional analysis .
   traditional nutritional assessment methods such as food diaries and
   questionnaires are limited by their reliance on participant recall and
   manual processing , which reduces their accuracy and efficiency . as an
   alternative , advances in machine learning and deep learning have shown
   potential in automating food identification and estimating nutrient content
   , such as calories , protein , carbohydrates , and fat . this study was
   conducted through bibliometric analysis and technical review of publications
   from the scopus database , using a structured search strategy and applying
   inclusion and exclusion criteria . articles were selected based on topic
   relevance , use of machine learning or deep learning methods , publication
   in english , and publication between 2020 and 2024 . the review identified
   key research trends , key contributors , popular methods such as cnn and
   yolo , and the most frequently reported limitations , including lack of
   dataset diversity , inaccuracy in food volume estimation , and the need for
   real time integrated systems . these limitations were analyzed based on the
   methodology and findings of the reviewed studies . this review is expected
   to be a comprehensive reference for researchers and practitioners in
   developing food image segmentation technology for more accurate and
   applicable nutritional assessment . 2025 , department of agribusiness ,
   universitas muhammadiyah yogyakarta
DE bibliometric analysis; computer vision; food image segmentation; nutrition
   analysis; research trends

---

UT 978
AR Zhang L/1, 2025, J ENV OCCUP MED, V42, P1252, DOI 10.11836/JEOM24562
TI Recent advances in application of machine learning for food safety risk
   early warning systems; [机器学习在食品安全风险预警中的应用进展]
AU Zhang L/1; Zhou Z; Yao Y; Peng S
TC 0
SO J ENV OCCUP MED
PY 2025
AB food safety risk early warning is a crucial technical approach to ensure
   that regulation stays ahead of potential risks . in recent years , machine
   learning , as an emerging technology , has demonstrated its immense
   potential in food safety risk early warning due to its powerful data
   processing and analysis capabilities . this paper introduced the concept of
   food safety risk early warning and the current food safety risk early
   warning systems both domestically and interna tionally . it reviewed the
   main principles , basic characteristics , and application progress of
   various machine learning methods , including logistic regression , least
   absolute shrinkage and selection operator , support vector machine , random
   forest , bayesian network , extreme gradient boosting , light gradient
   boosting machine , and artificial neural networks . the paper also presented
   the ad vantages and disadvantages of machine learning in current food safety
   risk early warning application scenarios , as well as future development
   directions . in particular , advanced technologies such as multimodal data
   fusion and deep learning are expected to play an increasingly important role
   in future food safety risk early warning . 2025 , shanghai municipal center
   for disease control and prevention
DE data analysis; food safety; machine learning; risk early warning
ID artificial neural network; bayesian network; complication; data analysis;
   data processing; deep learning; disease control; food safety; human; least
   absolute shrinkage and selection operator; logistic regression analysis;
   machine learning; prevention; random forest; review; support vector machine

---

UT 979
AR Rahin M, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT INNOV ENG SUSTAIN ICCIES, DOI
   10.1109/ICCIES63851.2025.11032532
TI A Novel Deep Learning Framework for Food Ingredient Classification Using
   ResNet and SMO Classifiers
AU Rahin M; Devi A; Gowtham M; Sivaraman C
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT INNOV ENG SUSTAIN ICCIES
PY 2025
AB the research proposes a new deep learning ( dl ) system that uses resnet to
   extract features from food images and sequential minimal optimization ( smo
   ) classifiers for prediction . in addition to having trouble handling
   complex , high dimensional datasets , traditional machine learning ( ml )
   methods like support vector machines ( svms ) also have trouble operating in
   real time . the proposed approach combines resnet s capacity to learn
   hierarchical features with smo s robust classification capabilities ,
   delivering both accuracy and scalability advantages . the proposed method
   performs better than existing method , according to the testing results ,
   with a maximum accuracy of 93.4 % , precision and recall of 91.7 % and 92.5
   % , respectively , whereas the existing system achieves only 85.3 % and 78.5
   % . while it has longer trained times ( 7.5 hours ) , it has faster
   inference speeds ( 88 milliseconds ) . robustness against noisy data ( 88.7
   % ) and low quality data ( 89.5 % ) contributes to the proposed system s
   strength , allowing for performance optimization that is excellent for real
   time applications such as food safety and nutritional monitoring
DE accuracy improvement; food dataset; food ingredient classification; real
   time classification; resnet; smo classifier
ID classification ( of information ); classifiers; deep learning; food
   additives; food ingredients; food safety; learning systems; optimization;
   signal processing; accuracy improvement; food dataset; food image; food
   ingredient classification; food ingredients; learning frameworks; real-
   time; real time classification; sequential minimal optimization; sequential
   minimal optimization classifier; support vector machines

---

UT 980
AR Harini M, 2025, INT CONF INTELL INNOV ENG TECHNOL ICIIET, DOI
   10.1109/ICIIET65921.2025.11378717
TI Automated Calorie Estimation From Food Images Using Deep Learning
AU Harini M; Mohamed Arsath H; Mohammed Sameer B; Palanimurugan V
TC 0
SO INT CONF INTELL INNOV ENG TECHNOL ICIIET
PY 2025
AB manual calorie tracking is often imprecise and laborious , making dietary
   monitoring challenging for users . with the widespread use of smartphones ,
   image based methods powered by deep learning have emerged as a promising
   solution to automatically estimate calories from food images . this work
   aims to automate calorie estimation by enabling users to upload food images
   , which are processed for food classification and portion estimation using
   advanced deep learning models such as mobilenetv2 , efficientnetb0 ,
   resnet18 , inceptionv3 , and densenet121 . the system calculates calories
   and provides a detailed nutritional breakdown , allowing users to track and
   maintain healthy eating habits . this approach addresses the need for
   immediate and intuitive diet monitoring , contributing to global health
   goals by supporting the prevention and management of diet related diseases
   such as obesity , diabetes , and malnutrition . by integrating computer
   vision and deep learning , the proposed system enhances the accuracy of
   calorie estimation , promotes nutritional awareness , and facilitates
   healthier lifestyle choices
DE calorie estimation; computervision; deep learning; dietary monitoring; food
   recognition

---

UT 981
AR Huq SM, 2025, CONF PROC - IEEE INT CONF TECHNOL ENG MANAG SOC IMPACT MARK
   ENTREP TALENT TEMSMET, DOI 10.1109/TEMSMET65536.2025.11467235
TI AI-Based Consumer Purchase Prediction Towards Organic Foods: A Machine
   Learning Approach
AU Huq SM; Aktar S; Halimuzzama M; Singh S; Balusamy B; Tyagi A; Islam MM/1;
   Afroz S; Ali MA
TC 0
SO CONF PROC - IEEE INT CONF TECHNOL ENG MANAG SOC IMPACT MARK ENTREP TALENT
   TEMSMET
PY 2025
AB the increasing shift of consumers to organic food products presents chances
   and challenges to companies willing to meet the changing market demands .
   effective marketing , stocking , and streamlining of the supply chain in the
   industry would require accurate prediction of customer buying patterns . the
   current paper proposes an ai based approach to predict consumer buying
   behavior using empirical survey data comprising demographic , time , and
   product attributes , among others . we implemented and tested three dl
   algorithms , including bi lstm , gru , and mlp , to predict the quantity of
   purchases . the features were preprocessed through engineering techniques ,
   which include temporal extraction , smoothing by rolling average , and
   normalization . other measures of model performance that were obtained were
   r2 , mae , mse , and rmse , and mlp had the best scores ( r2 = 9 9 . 6 2 % )
   . we built models using the dl approach that achieved better performance
   compared to the baseline models with an r2 ( 9 8 . 4 9 % , 2 6 . 7 7 % , 9 9
   . 6 2 % ) , mae ( 0 . 0 0 1 9 7 1 , 0.011036 , 0.001008 ) , mse (
   0.000008,0.000398,0.000002 ) , and rmse ( 0.002865,0.019948,0.001429 ) for
   bi lstm , gru , and mlp , respectively . statistical tests , such as anova
   and friedman tests , confirmed the significance of the differences in the
   model accuracy . the findings speak of the potential of dl in understanding
   complex customer behavior and provide some valuable advice to organic food
   sellers and lawmakers
DE bi-lstm; customer behavior; gru; machine learning; mlp; prediction
ID commerce; computation theory; consumer behavior; learning systems; machine
   learning; population statistics; purchasing; sales; supply chains; bi-lstm;
   consumer purchase; customer behavior; gru; machine learning approaches;
   machine learning; market demand; mlp; organic food products; organic foods;
   forecasting

---

UT 982
AR Shanmugapriya EV, 2026, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, DOI 10.1007/s11694-026-04135-x
TI Next-generation food safety: Terahertz and AI for non-destructive testing of
   food products
AU Shanmugapriya EV; Edward AS; Latha AM
TC 1
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2026
AB food adulteration and contamination remain critical global challenges for
   supply chain integrity , public health protection , and consumer trust .
   conventional destructive analytical techniques such as high performance
   liquid chromatography ( hplc ) and gas chromatographymass spectrometry (
   gcms ) , while accurate , are invasive , time consuming , and poorly suited
   for high throughput or in line monitoring . this review evaluates terahertz
   ( thz ) spectroscopy and imaging , in combination with artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , as emerging non destructive testing ( ndt ) modalities
   for agri food quality and safety , with emphasis on their integration into
   processing and quality control systems . a systematic synthesis of studies
   published between 2021 and 2025 examines thz applications in adulterant
   detection , spoilage monitoring , and quality assessment , benchmarked
   against established techniques including hyperspectral imaging , raman ,
   near and mid infrared spectroscopy , ultrasound , and x ray inspection .
   recent reports demonstrate classification accuracies exceeding 90 % for
   selected dry food adulteration tasks , regression errors below 0.05 g/100 g
   for quantitative analyzes , and signal to noise improvements of
   approximately 2540 % using ai assisted thz processing pipelines . persistent
   challenges including limited penetration in high moisture foods , dataset
   scarcity , calibration transfer , and model generalization are critically
   discussed . building on these insights , the review outlines industrial and
   regulatory pathways aligned with haccp based systems and iso / aoac
   frameworks , and discusses socio economic implications such as food waste
   reduction , resource efficiency , and equitable compliance verification
   across global agri food supply chains
DE ai in food analysis; benchmark datasets; food process monitoring; food
   safety; nondestructive testing; terahertz spectroscopy
ID agri-food; chemical contamination; compliance control; consumer protection;
   food microbiology; food processing; food safety; food supply; food waste;
   hyperspectral imaging; infrared devices; infrared spectroscopy; mass
   spectrometry; nondestructive examination; quality control; regulatory
   compliance; safety testing; spectrum analysis; supply chains; terahertz
   waves; artificial intelligence in food analyze; benchmark datasets; food
   adulterations; food analysis; food contamination; food process monitoring;
   food safety; global challenges; nondestructive testing; tera hertz;
   terahertz spectroscopy

---

UT 983
AR Wani NR, 2026, APPL RHEOL FOOD PROCESS, P323, DOI 10.1201/9781003750642-12
TI Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Food Rheology
AU Wani NR; Mushtaq M; Amin QA; Jan SY; Amin I
TC 0
SO APPL RHEOL FOOD PROCESS
PY 2026
AB a new era in understanding and optimizing the rheological properties of food
   products is marked by the application of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning ( ml ) in food rheology . texture , stability , and
   processability of semi solid foods are some of the things that can be
   described through rheology , which is a science that deals with flow and
   deformation characteristics of materials . on one hand , ai often provides
   efficient , predictive models that are useful in reducing experimental
   activities used by traditional rheological methods . this chapter explores
   the integration of ai , ml , cnn ( convolutional neural networks ) , anfis ,
   and artificial neural networks ( anns ) in the study of food rheology . it
   begins by discussing fundamental rheological properties such as viscosity ,
   elasticity , stress strain relationships , and creep behavior that are
   important for the quality and functionality of semisolid foods . the chapter
   then goes deeper into the workflow followed when implementing ai and ml
   techniques to rheology , which include data collection , preprocessing ,
   feature selection , model training , as well as validation . much attention
   is paid to convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) , which are particularly
   fit for dealing with complex and high dimensional data that are often
   encountered in rheological studies . the ability of cnns to capture spatial
   hierarchies in data makes them very useful for making predictions on
   rheological properties from different datasets . the case studies show the
   successful application of ai and ml in predicting stress strain behavior ,
   creep characteristics of different semi solid foods , optimization of
   formulations , and improvement of quality control processes . in addition to
   addressing issues such as ethical considerations and regulatory compliance
   relevant to ai applications in food science , it also discusses pertinent
   challenges like data quality , model interpretability , integration with
   existing systems , among others . finally , the chapter concludes with an
   overview of how the potential exists for ai and ml to change the world of
   food rheology , which offers predictions concerning prospects and new
   directions . to promote studies and applications in food rheology , this
   comprehensive overview is essential for scientists , practitioners , and
   students as it provides guidance for utilizing ai and ml
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; elasticity; food products;
   learning systems; machine learning; quality control; regulatory compliance;
   rheology; stress-strain curves; artificial intelligence learning;
   convolutional neural network; deformation characteristics; flow
   characteristic; food rheology; machine learning; processability; rheological
   property; semi-solids; solid food; forecasting

---

UT 984
AR Panda AR, 2025, ESIC - INT CONF EMERG SYST INTELL COMPUT PROC, P901, DOI
   10.1109/ESIC64052.2025.10962585
TI Enhancing Delivery Time Predictions for Food Delivery Services Using Machine
   Learning and Geospatial Analytics
AU Panda AR; Pinnamaraju P; Tongbram A; Sinha AK; Gourisaria MK; Mishra MK
TC 3
SO ESIC - INT CONF EMERG SYST INTELL COMPUT PROC
PY 2025
AB the food delivery market is spreading fast , so predicting delivery times ,
   so that customers are happy and operations work efficiently , is possible .
   the research combines machine learning techniques with geospatial analytics
   to create a unified forecasting framework for delivery duration . in
   conjunction with other factors such as traffic density , weather etc ,
   essential features , namely geodesic delivery distance and order preparation
   time were meticulously engineered and thoroughly examined . random forest
   machine learning algorithms showed improved accuracy , and interpretative
   tools like shap emphasize the relevance of the traffic and distance
   variables . the results fill a gap in the delivery logistics industry and
   establish a foundation for data incorporation and dynamic route optimization
   that translates into insightful operational strategies
DE delivery time prediction; explainable ai ( xai ); food delivery logistics;
   geospatial analytics; machine learning
ID delivery logistics; delivery time; delivery time prediction; explainable ai
   ( xai ); food delivery; food delivery logistic; geospatial; geospatial
   analytic; machine learning; time predictions; random forests

---

UT 985
AR Bhardwaj A, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P469,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00033-3
TI Artificial intelligence and machine learning in food safety assessment:
   rapid detection of contaminants and pathogens
AU Bhardwaj A; Rastogi S; Sharma N; Sharma V/1
TC 1
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB food safety is a cornerstone of public health , ensuring the integrity of
   food consumed by mitigating risks posed by biological , chemical , and
   physical contaminants . traditional methods like microbiological and
   molecular techniques have been instrumental but often face limitations of
   time , labor intensity , and environmental concerns . with advancements in
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) , innovative
   solutions for food safety assessment are emerging . these technologies
   enable real time detection of biological hazards , quality inspection via
   computer vision , and optimization of food preservation through data driven
   insights . ai and ml leverage diverse datasets sensor readings , visual
   inspections , and hyperspectral imaging to enhance predictive accuracy and
   operational efficiency . supervised , unsupervised , and reinforcement
   learning algorithms address contamination detection , anomaly recognition ,
   and logistics management , respectively . despite challenges like data
   privacy and algorithmic bias , ai and ml present transformative potential
   for improving global food safety , quality control , and supply chain
   management . this chapter explores these applications , challenges , and
   future directions
DE algorithms; applications; assessment; ethics; food; safety; supervised;
   unsupervised
ID biohazards; chemical contamination; contamination; data privacy; food
   microbiology; food preservation; food safety; health risks; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; machine learning; supply chain management;
   artificial intelligence learning; assessment; food safety; machine learning;
   mitigating risk; molecular techniques; rapid detection; safety assessments;
   supervised; unsupervised; accident prevention

---

UT 986
AR Pakka K, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1431 LNNS, P387, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-6681-2_27
TI A Comparative Study of Artificial Intelligence Techniques on Detecting Food
   Adulteration
AU Pakka K; Vijaya Shetty S
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB the aim of the food adulteration process is to alter the quality of food to
   attain personal gain . this is typically achieved by incorporating
   artificial colors , substances , and low quality alternatives into the food
   , which can result in severe health issues for the public . recent studies
   have demonstrated that contamination in food can lead to a range of problems
   , including digestive and long term health issues . in order to address
   these challenges , it is necessary to take appropriate actions to raise
   consumer awareness through the use of advanced technologies . in food
   science and technology , computer vision has surfaced as a very effective
   technique , outperforming traditional detection methods with fewer experts
   and reduced time requirements . this paper delves into consumer knowledge of
   food adulteration , assesses the progression from conventional to advanced
   adulteration detection methods , employs a comparison model that emphasizes
   the significance of computer vision in this field . this survey updates
   researchers about the necessity of vision based systems and its role in
   increasing consumer awareness about food contamination and adulteration
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision; deep learning; food adulteration;
   food science and technology
ID chemical contamination; deep learning; food chemistry; artificial color;
   artificial intelligence techniques; color quality; comparatives studies;
   consumer awareness; deep learning; detection methods; food adulterations;
   food science and technology; health issues; computer vision

---

UT 987
AR Rasta M, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V509, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2026.148610
TI Hydrodynamic modulation of microplastic bioaccumulation in edible fish:
   Integrating biomarker networks, machine learning, and food safety
   perspectives
AU Rasta M; Lashkaryan NS; Shi X; Taleshi MS; Vayghan AH; Ahmadi A; Kakakhel
   MA; Manke J; Liu L/3; Wu Y
TC 4
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB microplastic ( mp ) pollution poses increasing environmental and food safety
   risks , yet the role of hydrodynamics in mps bioaccumulation and fish
   physiology is unclear . this study assessed the effects of 5 m polystyrene
   mps ( 1000 g / l ) on ctenopharyngodon idella under static conditions and at
   water velocities of 1 , 3 , and 5 body lengths per second ( bl / s ) . fish
   exposed to high velocity showed highest mps bioaccumulation ( 58.1 10.5 103
   g / kg ) , and histological damage , including fiber degeneration , necrosis
   , and hemorrhage . biomarkers indicated oxidative stress , neurotoxicity ,
   and disrupted energy metabolism , while endocrine and neurochemical
   disturbances reflected systemic stress and reduced tissue quality .
   factorial anova and structural equation modeling revealed independent and
   synergistic effects of mps and hydrodynamics on muscle damage . machine
   learning identified atpase , superoxide dismutase , and cholinesterase as
   key predictive biomarkers ( 87.5 % accuracy ) . collectively , these
   findings challenge static exposure paradigms in mps toxicity studies and
   demonstrate hydrodynamics drive mps bioaccumulation and effects , requiring
   ecological risk assessment inclusion
DE biomarker responses; endocrine disruption; food safety; hydrodynamics;
   microplastics bioaccumulation; predictive modeling
ID animals; bioaccumulation; biomarkers; carps; fishes; food contamination;
   food safety; hydrodynamics; machine learning; microplastics; seafood; water
   pollutants chemical; biomarkers; chemical contamination; fish; food safety;
   learning systems; machine learning; metabolism; microplastic; risk
   assessment; toxicity; adenosine triphosphatase; biological marker;
   cholinesterase; isocitrate dehydrogenase; microplastic; polystyrene;
   superoxide dismutase; biological marker; microplastic; biomarker response;
   endocrine disruption; environmental safety; food safety; hydrodynamic
   modulation; machine learning; microplastic bioaccumulation; microplastics;
   network machines; predictive models; animal tissue; article;
   bioaccumulation; body height; controlled study; energy metabolism;
   environmental stress; food safety; freshwater environment; grass carp;
   histopathology; hydrodynamics; lipid metabolism; machine learning;
   microplastic pollution; muscle injury; neurotoxicity; nonhuman; oxidative
   stress; predictive model; scanning electron microscopy; structural equation
   modeling; animal; bioaccumulation; carp; chemistry; fish; food
   contamination; hydrodynamics; metabolism; sea food; water pollutant;
   bioaccumulation; hydrodynamics

---

UT 988
AR Kumar A/1, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P97,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00015-1
TI Deep learning approach for food science and bioprocess optimizations
AU Kumar A/1; Pillai M; Khanal S; Mishra E; Kumar D; Roy S; Biswas D
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB the incorporation of deep learning ( dl ) to the field of food science and
   bioprocess optimization has gained a lot of attention recently due to its
   complex problem solving ability . this chapter navigates the potential of dl
   models to transform the conventional way of food production , food quality
   assessment , food processing , and different aspects of bioprocess
   engineering especially efficiency and scalability of bioprocess . starting
   with a basic outline of different dl models including convolutional neural
   network ( cnn ) , recurrent neural network ( rnn ) , stacked autoencoders (
   saes ) , and fcn , the chapter navigates through critical application areas
   , for example , food classification , food quality monitoring , and food
   safety analysis . subsequently , this chapter elucidates discussion of
   crucial bioprocess applications , including dl assisted predictive models
   for product optimization , continuous monitoring and controlling
   fermentation process , and waste management . in addition to various
   applications , this chapter also delineates challenges of these emerging
   areas and the future prospective . this chapter details about
   revolutionizing food science and bioprocess through emerging technology ,
   for example , artificial intelligence and provides holistic insight to
   readers for utilizing dl for high quality , sustainable , and cost effective
   food production , and scalability in bioprocess applications
DE applied computing; computer vision; industrial biotechnology; mathematical
   optimization; sustainable development
ID convolutional neural networks; cost effectiveness; deep learning; food
   processing; food safety; optimization; problem solving; process control;
   sustainable development; applied computing; bioprocess optimization;
   bioprocesses; food production; food quality; food science; industrial
   biotechnology; learning approach; learning models; mathematical
   optimizations; computer vision

---

UT 989
AR Li Y/8, 2025, PROC INT CONF IOT DATA SCI ADV COMPUT IDSAC, P81, DOI
   10.1109/IDSAC65763.2025.11170286
TI Intelligent Quality Assessment of Fruit-Vegetable Enzyme Fermentation via
   Multisensor Fusion and Machine Learning
AU Li Y/8; Wang Y/8; Yan R/1; Liu L/2
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF IOT DATA SCI ADV COMPUT IDSAC
PY 2025
AB consistent quality assurance and shelf life prediction of enzyme beverages
   face challenges from rapidly changing physicochemical conditions during
   fermentation . this study proposes an end to end framework integrating data
   from 11 common sensors ( ph , alcohol , so , sugars ) for dual tasks : pass
   fail grading and shelf life estimation . five machine learning algorithms
   were tested on 6497 wine quality records split into training , validation ,
   and test sets . random forest outperformed others , achieving 0.919 area
   under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( auroc ) and 0.932 recall
   for classification , the 0.394 mean absolute error ( mae ) , 0.301 root mean
   squared error ( rmse ) , and highest r2 ( 0.594 ) for regression . analysis
   showed minimal bias and tightest error distribution . shapley ( shap )
   values identified alcohol , volatile acidity , and free so as key factors
   aligning with fermentation chemistry
DE component; fruit-vegetable enzyme fermentation; machine learning in food
   processing; multi-sensor fusion; quality assessment; random forest; shapley
   interpretability; shelf life prediction
ID errors; fermentation; fruits; learning systems; machine learning; quality
   assurance; random forests; thermal processing ( foods ); vegetables;
   component; fruit-vegetable enzyme fermentation; interpretability; machine
   learning; machine learning in food processing; multi-sensor; quality
   assessment; random forests; shapley; shapley interpretability; shelf life
   prediction; grading

---

UT 990
AR Ur Rehman Khan S, 2026, MEMETIC COMPUT, V18, DOI 10.1007/s12293-026-00495-5
TI Advancing food safety: deep learning for accurate detection of bacterial
   contaminants
AU Ur Rehman Khan S; Bilal O; Hekmat A; Shahzad I; Raza A
TC 0
SO MEMETIC COMPUT
PY 2026
AB foodborne bacteria stand as the foremost because of human mortality ,
   representing the deadliest disease in existence . cutting edge research in
   the field of foodborne bacteria detection leverages the power of deep
   learning and ensemble learning techniques , however no one exclusively
   focusing on feature fusion to distinguish between live and dead bacterial
   cells , ensuring food safety . this paper introduces a novel feature fusion
   approach with improved naive inception module , designed to enhance the
   classification of live and dead foodborne bacteria using hyperspectral
   microscope imagery dataset . the approach combines the strengths of
   efficient networks , specifically efficientnet b1 , and the established
   architecture of resnet 50 . we have enhanced the original naive inception
   module by substituting the conventional activation function with leakyrelu ,
   a modified activation function . one notable advantage of leakyrelu is that
   it helps mitigate the vanishing gradient problem , which can lead to more
   stable and efficient training of deep neural networks . the modified
   inception module excels at capturing contextual information , enhancing its
   ability to recognize intricate patterns within images . by fusion of these
   models via modified inception module , enriching feature representations
   encompassing image characteristics . following feature extraction from the
   integrated efficientnet b1 , and resnet 50 models , the subsequent phase of
   our methodology involves transmitting these fused features to a naive
   inception module for conclusive classification between live and dead
   bacterial entities . our dataset comprises a total of 1274 images , with 656
   images corresponding to dead cells and 618 images representing live cells .
   we applied histograms to enhance the image quality by providing insights
   into the distribution of pixel intensities , aiding in contrast adjustment
   and overall image enhancement . following rigorous preprocessing steps ,
   hyperparameter optimization is crucial for enhancing deep learning
   classifier performance , as it fine tunes model settings , leading to
   superior outcomes like a 90.90 % accuracy rate . additionally , conducting
   an ablation study helps analyze the impact of modifications on a model ,
   providing valuable insights for further improvements . foodborne bacteria
   prediction empowers food safety departments with early identification of
   potential outbreaks , enabling timely intervention and proactive measures to
   ensure food safety . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer
   verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2026 .
DE feature fusion; leakyrelu; naive inception module; transfer learning
ID bacteria; chemical contamination; classification ( of information );
   classifiers; deep neural networks; diseases; feature extraction; food
   microbiology; food safety; image classification; image enhancement; image
   fusion; learning systems; activation functions; bacterial contaminants;
   cutting edges; features fusions; foodborne bacteria; food safety; human
   mortality; leakyrelu; naive inception module; transfer learning; chemical
   activation

---

UT 991
AR Queipo-Alvarez P, 2025, MALAYS J MED HEAL SCI, V21, P194, DOI
   10.47836/mjmhs.21.s11.27
TI Food Calorie Estimation Using Computer Vision: A Comparative Review of
   Models and Approaches
AU Queipo-Alvarez P; Munoz-Organero M; Wahab AA; Rahim MSM
TC 0
SO MALAYS J MED HEAL SCI
PY 2025
AB introduction : this literature review explores recent research on estimating
   food calories using computer vision . it benefits nutritional monitoring ,
   food logging and dietary assessment . monitoring the diet , glycaemic
   indices , total calories and consumed nutrients can improve wellbeing across
   populations . computer vision has emerged as a promising approach for
   calorie estimation , with 56 studies reviewed covering key subtasks such as
   image segmentation , classification , category recognition , category
   detection , volume estimation , quantity detection and nutrients estimation
   . prominent methods include pre trained convolutional neural networks ( cnns
   ) , transfer learning techniques such as resnet and efficientnet , and multi
   task learning architectures . evaluation commonly relies on metrics such as
   accuracy and relative error , with convolutional neural networks and multi
   task frameworks achieving over 90 % accuracy in food segmentation and
   recognition and less than 15 % relative error in calorie estimation . there
   is still a long way to go with multi layered dishes and homemade sauces , so
   categorizing and annotating recipes and nutritional content in databases is
   still necessary . 2025 universiti putra malaysia press
DE calorie estimation; computer vision; dietary assessment; food recognition;
   food segmentation

---

UT 992
AR Lee GGC, 2025, IEEE INT CONF ELECTRO INF TECHNOL, P383, DOI
   10.1109/eIT64391.2025.11103677
TI Single Food Image Database: A Comprehensive High Quality Image Dataset for
   Food Recognition in Artificial Intelligence
AU Lee GGC; Yang C-C; Pan W-H; Wu C-H; Wu H-C; Chang C-S; Kuo C-A; Chao H-Y
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF ELECTRO INF TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB this paper introduces a diverse single food image database , serving as a
   key resource for enhancing food ingredient recognition . built with
   considerations of taiwanese dietary habits and dietary survey data , this
   database is highly relevant to taiwanese and asian dietary culture while
   dietary globalization also makes it applicable to western society . the
   database consists of 93 common foods with a total of 18,737 images ,
   addressing the urgent need for high quality visual data in food recognition
   analysis . the images are sourced from both web collection and manual
   photography , and their diversity and accuracy are maximized by
   incorporating various types , shapes , and imaging angles . additionally ,
   since the original aifood dataset covered only 24 categories , this study
   conducted a detailed relabeling and refinement process , expanding the
   dataset to 93 categories . this enhancement provides a more granular food
   classification standard , significantly enhancing food recognition and
   classification accuracy . by offering a high quality food image database ,
   this work facilitates the development of automated food recognition . this
   dataset can be widely applied in hobby , digital health , and clinical
   fields , supporting ai humanity projects , and providing a more precise and
   culturally adaptive foundation for food recognition and subsequent nutrition
   analysis
DE food categorization; food image database; ingredient recognition
ID artificial intelligence; database systems; food additives; food ingredients;
   image analysis; nutrition; food categorization; food image; food image
   database; food ingredients; high quality; high quality images; image
   database; image datasets; ingredient recognition; key resources; image
   enhancement

---

UT 993
AR [Anonymous], 2026, PROC INT CONF INTELL DATA COMMUN TECHNOL INTERNET THINGS
   IDCIOT, P1734, DOI 10.1109/IDCIoT67589.2026.11455738
TI A Comprehensive Review of AI and Machine Learning-Based Diet Chart
   Recommendation Systems
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL DATA COMMUN TECHNOL INTERNET THINGS IDCIOT
PY 2026
AB with the modernization of the process of constantly increasing incidence of
   diet related health complications , the necessity of individual preparation
   of a diet plan is now unquestionable . nutrition is never a good solution
   because individuality is extremely different among the vast variety of
   hardware that includes lifestyle patterns , socioeconomic background , and
   various health goals . with this serious deficiency in mind , the proposed
   research is to create an advanced diet chart recommendation system . such an
   innovative system will use the forces of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning ( ml ) to give very personalized dietary advice . the user
   will be given the freedom of typing their information in many ways , such as
   with images and texts . the multi modal input feature is to make the user
   experience convenient and to be accessible . besides , the system is made to
   be able to grow and develop . the model will also evolve , continually
   learning and retaining the user goals in real time feedback mechanisms ,
   which will successively advance its recommendations to become most
   accurately aligned to suit the preferences and changing health aspirations
   of the individual user . this adaptive learning has been made so that the
   system will become more effective and intuitive in the course of the use
   preparation and finally lead to improvement in health outcomes of its users
DE convolutional neural network; diet chart recommendation; image
   classification; long short-term memory
ID convolutional neural networks; learning systems; machine learning;
   nutrition; recommender systems; artificial intelligence learning;
   convolutional neural network; diet chart recommendation; diet plan; health
   complications; images classification; long short-term memory; machine
   learning; short-term memory; socio-economics; image classification

---

UT 994
AR Menz J, 2025, COMPUT TOXICOL, V35, DOI 10.1016/j.comtox.2025.100370
TI Screening for genotoxicants in food: A data-driven approach using food
   composition data and machine learning based in silico models
AU Menz J; Schäfer B
TC 0
SO COMPUT TOXICOL
PY 2025
AB foods represent complex mixtures of constituents and contaminants , some of
   which may pose risks to health through genotoxic effects . we investigated
   the current capabilities and limitations of a data driven approach for the
   systematic identification of genotoxic substances in food . to this end , we
   used machine learning to develop quantitative structureactivity relationship
   ( qsar ) models aimed at predicting outcomes for three in vitro genotoxicity
   assays : the bacterial reverse mutation assay ( ames test ) , the in vitro
   chromosomal aberration test ( cavit ) and the in vitro micronucleus test (
   mnvit ) . these models were applied to screen for putative dietary
   genotoxicants using the foodb compound dataset ( n = 70,477 ) as a case
   study . overall , 6.6 % of the foodb compounds were predicted as positive by
   at least one in silico model , while 7.1 % were predicted as negative by all
   three models . depending on the predicted endpoint , between 77 % and 82 %
   of the foodb compounds fell outside the model s applicability domain or gave
   an equivocal prediction . interestingly , of the 4,683 foodb compounds
   predicted to be positive in at least one in vitro assay , only 491 could be
   mapped to an experimental data point . as a strategy to progress from in
   silico screening to risk assessment , we propose a tiered approach that
   integrates in silico modeling , exposure assessment and experimental testing
   . while it has to be acknowledged that current food composition databases
   and in silico models still have limitations , this work illustrates that
   data driven approaches hold great promise for enhancing the identification
   of genotoxicants in foods
DE ames test; chromosomal aberration test; foodb; genetic toxicity;
   micronucleus test; qsar
ID aberrations; assays; chemical contamination; learning systems; machine
   learning; risk assessment; ames test; chromosomal aberration; chromosomal
   aberration test; data-driven approach; foodb; genetic toxicity; in silico
   models; in vitro; micronucleus test; quantitative structure-activity
   relationship; algorithm; article; chemical structure; chromosome; chromosome
   aberration; food composition; genotoxicity; machine learning; micronucleus
   test; principal component analysis; quantitative structure-activity
   relation; risk assessment; screening; standardization; stereochemistry;
   health risks

---

UT 995
AR Guo X, 2025, SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND, V46, P20, DOI
   10.13386/j.issn1002-0306.2024040375
TI Advance in Application of Deep Learning in Food Quality and Safety
   Detection; [深度学习在食品质量与安全检测中的应用进展]
AU Guo X; Sun Y/4; Liu S/6; Yang X/3; Zhao J/4; Jiang L/1
TC 2
SO SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB with the improvement of people s living standards , consumers demand for
   food quality and safety is growing . traditional methods for detecting food
   quality and safety can no longer meet the demand for efficient , accurate
   and reliable detection . therefore , it becomes imperative to seek a more
   efficient and convenient detection method . on this basis , the rapid
   development of deep neural network based machine learning technology , i . e
   . , deep learning , has brought new opportunities for food quality and
   safety detection . this paper focuses on the application progress of deep
   learning in food quality and safety detection . it introduces the principles
   of traditional machine learning and deep learning , and elaborates on the
   applications of deep learning in food origin tracing and food quality ,
   including the detection of food defects , freshness , adulteration , and
   pathogens . furthermore , it looks forward to the development trends of deep
   learning in the field of food quality and safety detection , aiming to
   provide theoretical references and research ideas for this field
DE deep learning; food quality and safety; food traceability; neural networks;
   quality detection
ID food ingredients; consumer demands; deep learning; detection methods;
   efficient detection; food quality and safeties; food traceabilitys; living
   standards; neural networks; quality detection; reliable detection; food
   chemistry

---

UT 996
AR Masih J, 2025, SCI C, V11, P274, DOI 10.5281/zenodo.11042524
TI CONSUMER MINDSETS ON HEALTHY EATING: A MACHINE LEARNING STUDY OF ORGANIC
   FOOD TRENDS THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA
AU Masih J; Yadav D; Rajasekaran R; Wadhwa S; Singh G
TC 0
SO SCI C
PY 2025
AB with the increasing global emphasis on health and hygiene , particularly in
   the aftermath of the covid 19 pandemic , the organic food industry has
   undergone significant transformation . this research employs social media
   analytics to examine post pandemic consumer sentiments regarding organic
   products . analysis of 150,000 social media responses utilizing vader , lstm
   , and bert machine learning models provides critical insights into emerging
   customer behavior trends . the majority of public reactions to organic food
   are positive , as consumers appreciate its health benefits and natural ,
   wholesome qualities . scientific literature indicates that organic food is
   perceived as a healthier and less hazardous option compared to conventional
   produce . despite the prevalent positive sentiments , challenges remain to
   be addressed . disruptions in the supply chain and price sensitivity were
   the primary factors contributing to negative feedback during the pandemic .
   the analysis from cluster modeling revealed a significant consumer trend
   toward purchasing raw and semi processed organic food products , with a
   preference for convenient options that maintain health benefits . the
   findings reveal how covid 19 expanded the organic food market s reach ,
   transforming it from a niche upscale market to one that encompasses a
   broader spectrum of middle class consumers , young professionals , and
   students . this shift enables manufacturers to develop strategies that align
   with the current market , where consumers prioritize health conscious
   decisions and environmental concerns . improving supply chain reliability is
   as crucial as expanding the product portfolio and providing affordable
   quality products as key strategic solutions . this research confirms that
   machine learning assists businesses in interpreting consumer sentiment more
   effectively while providing clear market directions for navigating the
   organic food industry in the post pandemic landscape . 2025 , university of
   aegean
DE bert; consumer sentiment; machine learning; organic foods; post-pandemic
   trends

---

UT 997
AR Stancu A, 2026, RECYCL UPCYCLING WASTE MANAG SUSTAIN PRACT FUTUR TRENDS,
   P293, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-33166-4.00010-0
TI Artificial intelligence methods applied for food loss and waste reduction
AU Stancu A; Rosca C-M
TC 0
SO RECYCL UPCYCLING WASTE MANAG SUSTAIN PRACT FUTUR TRENDS
PY 2026
AB nowadays , humanity faces numerous global issues such as climate change ,
   water scarcity , overpopulation , food loss and waste ( flw ) , etc .
   concerning flw , the chapter highlights its impact and the methods employed
   to reduce it . the irresponsible consumer behavior observed at some food
   festivals stands in contrast to world religious traditions that promote
   ethical food consumption . next , the analysis explores the prevalence of
   undernourishment across countries and focuses on five regions in africa . ai
   driven technologies , such as machine learning , natural language processing
   , and computer vision , provide a robust framework for tackling flw .
   therefore , a mobile application named food waste monitor was designed . it
   integrates four key modules ( food inventory , health , chat , and waste
   monitor ) to optimize usage , encourage healthy eating , and reduce food
   waste . however , a wide ranging educational effort must support
   implementing ai solutions to reduce food waste
DE artificial intelligence; consumer behavior; education; food loss and waste;
   machine learning; mobile application; prevalence of undernourishment
ID food supply; food waste; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; mobile computing; artificial intelligence methods; food loss; food
   waste; global issues; loss reduction; machine learning; mobile applications;
   prevalence of undernourishment; waste reduction; water scarcity; consumer
   behavior

---

UT 998
AR Sari OF, 2026, J MICROBIOL BIOTECHNOL FOOD SCI, V15, DOI
   10.55251/JMBFS.12303
TI EXPLORING BACTERIAL INTERACTIONS IN FOOD METAGENOMICS: ARTIFICIAL
   INTELLIGENCE APPROACH
AU Sari OF; Bader-El-Den M; Inc V
TC 0
SO J MICROBIOL BIOTECHNOL FOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB food spoilage poses a major challenge to food security , public health , and
   economic stability . this study examines microbial interactions in ready to
   eat ham using 16s rrna metabarcoding and association rule mining ( arm )
   with machine learning . by analyzing microbial co occurrence patterns
   through key metrics support , confidence , lift , and conviction this
   research identifies microbial relationships influencing spoilage dynamics .
   notably , escherichia coli and klebsiella were strongly associated with
   spoilage risks , while lactobacillus and enterococcus exhibited potential
   for mitigating spoilage effects . higher order associations involving
   bacillus , staphylococcus , and enterococcus revealed complex microbial
   networks shaping spoilage processes . these insights enhance the
   understanding of microbial ecology in food systems , highlighting both
   spoilage risks and the role of beneficial microbes . this study demonstrates
   the effectiveness of arm in metagenomic analysis , uncovering microbial
   interactions that inform predictive tools for microbial monitoring . by
   identifying key microbial relationships , it supports spoilage prevention
   strategies such as inhibiting pathogens or enhancing beneficial microbes .
   the findings contribute to food safety , quality management , and waste
   reduction , promoting sustainable food systems through data driven
   approaches . ( 2026 ) , ( journal of microbiology )
DE artificial intelligent; food safety; metabarcoding; microbial relationship

---

UT 999
AR Navina B, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P377,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00039-4
TI Shelf-life prediction through AI and ML to artificial intelligence in food
   science
AU Navina B; Huthaash KK; Samuel VR
TC 3
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) have changed the
   face of the food industry by changing the way things are done and used to
   predict the shelf life . they give better solutions and decisions on the
   quality and safety of the food and reduction of loss throughout the supply
   chain . by applying ai algorithms and ml techniques , food processors can
   forecast the shelf life more accurately and further extend it for better
   consumption of resources and satisfaction in consumption . intelligent
   package systems with sensors will monitor the conditions of food items in
   real time and provide valuable data to predict the shelf life of any food .
   in addition , the ai and ml models analyze complex patterns existing in food
   degradation , considering multiple variables related to temperature ,
   humidity , and microbial growth , which yield more accurate shelf life
   estimates compared to traditional techniques . meanwhile , the integration
   of ai and ml in shelf life prediction contributes to the building of more
   sustainable food systems , as it optimizes production schedules , reduces
   overproductions , diminishes food waste , and further environmental impacts
   . besides that , ai driven models for shelf life prediction can be
   integrated with other applications in food science , like chromatographic
   predictions , for further enhancement of accuracy and efficiency of
   assessments regarding food quality . this will position ai and ml for a
   great leap forward in the food industry , as the next stages of digital
   transformations will increasingly depend on or involve ai and ml for making
   predictions in determining shelf life , opening up new dimensions in food
   science and technology
DE artificial neural networks; food preservation; food quality; iot sensors;
   real time food monitoring
ID artificial life; food industry; food microbiology; food preservation; food
   safety; food waste; learning systems; prediction models; real time systems;
   shelf life; artificial intelligence learning; food quality; food science;
   iot sensor; machine learning; neural networks; real- time; real time food
   monitoring; shelf life; shelf life prediction; forecasting

---

UT 1000
AR Öztürk AB, 2025, SUSTAIN TECHNOL FOOD WASTE MANAG, P233, DOI
   10.1201/9781032706030-12
TI Food Waste Management through Machine Learning, IoT, and Blockchain
AU Öztürk AB; Heathcote-Fumador IE; McSey IA; M’nkubitu E; Thomi D; Wainaina S;
   Taherzadeh MJ
TC 4
SO SUSTAIN TECHNOL FOOD WASTE MANAG
PY 2025
AB grappling with food scarcity and environmental concerns in today s
   globalized world , the efficient management of food resources is essential .
   this chapter comprehensively discusses the innovative synergy of machine
   learning ( ml ) , internet of things ( iot ) , and blockchain technologies
   in managing the food waste problem . the chapter highlights the magnitude of
   the food waste problem , its origins , and its socio economic and
   environmental consequences . the potential collaboration of these
   technologies with food waste management is elucidated . this chapter
   explores how ml algorithms can analyze vast datasets from the food supply
   chain , enabling predictive models for market demand forecasting ,
   optimizing stocks , and lowering overproduction . furthermore , adopting
   sensors through iot for real time monitoring of parameters crucial to food
   spoilage could ensure optimal storage conditions and automated timely
   signals for intervention in detrimental circumstances to mitigate spoilage .
   additionally , after mentioning the principles of these technologies , the
   chapter illustrates the cooperation of these methods through case studies
   and their implementation in real world problems . the chapter concludes by
   addressing the potential obstacles and opportunities of shifting paradigms .
   several aspects , including privacy concerns , data security , and the
   digital divide , among the hurdles that necessitate considerable elaboration
   , are discussed . finally , how these obstacles could be eliminated and the
   importance of collaborative efforts among stakeholders , including
   governments , businesses , and research institutions , is emphasized as a
   crucial factor for achieving adoption

---

UT 1001
AR Lianbiaklal S, 2025, J PROD BRAND MANAG, DOI 10.1108/JPBM-11-2024-5602
TI Nudging consumer engagement for food brands: a machine learning and visual
   framing-based typological approach
AU Lianbiaklal S; Rehman V
TC 0
SO J PROD BRAND MANAG
PY 2025
AB purpose this study aims to investigate how visual content strategies
   influence consumer engagement with food brands on instagram by developing a
   post typology , examining its engagement effects and analyzing the
   moderating role of post modalities through the lens of nudge and media
   richness theory . design / methodology / approach instagram posts from food
   brands were analyzed using machine learning techniques and visual framing
   methodology , and operationalised as post typologies . the impact of post
   typologies and modalities on consumer engagement was analyzed using negative
   binomial regression . findings the study reveals that post orientations ,
   such as socioemotional and post typologies , like infotainment and
   transformational , significantly enhance consumer engagement . video content
   proved more effective for socioemotional oriented , interactional and
   transformational posts , whereas image was more effective for task oriented
   and infotainment posts . practical implications by understanding the
   interplay between post orientations , typologies and modalities , this study
   offers actionable insights for brands to create compelling content that
   drives consumer engagement and encourages informed food choices , enabling
   food brands to take a proactive role in shaping consumer preferences .
   originality / value unlike prior research that primarily used content
   analyzes , this study develops four post typologies grounded in established
   frameworks : one way and two way communication and interaction process
   analysis . by integrating nudge and media richness theory and introducing
   post modality as a moderator , it offers a novel perspective on how content
   type and modality together influence consumer engagement on social media
DE consumer engagement; media richness theory; nudge theory; post modality;
   post orientation; post typology; sdgs

---

UT 1002
AR Dai Y, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P167649, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3612465
TI Exploring Latent Feature Representations of Image Pixels via Convolutional
   Neural Network to Enhance Food Segmentation
AU Dai Y
TC 0
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB for open vocabulary recognition of ingredients in food images , ingredient
   segmentation is a crucial step . however , it remains a challenging problem
   . this paper proposes a novel approach that explores latent feature
   representations of image pixels via a convolutional neural network ( cnn )
   to enhance ingredient segmentation . an internal clustering metric based on
   the silhouette score is defined to evaluate the clustering quality of
   various pixel level feature representations generated by different feature
   maps derived from various cnn backbones . using this metric , the paper
   explores the most suitable feature representations and clustering methods
   for ingredient segmentation . additionally , it is found that principle
   component ( pc ) -driven latent feature presentations of pixels derived from
   concatenations of backbone feature maps improve the clustering quality of
   them , resulting in stable segmentation outcomes . notably , the number of
   selected eigenvalues can be used as the number of clusters to achieve good
   segmentation results . the proposed method is validated on widely used
   public datasets , achieving state of the art performances . importantly ,
   the proposed segmentation method is unsupervised , and pixel level feature
   representations from backbones are not fine tuned on specific datasets .
   this demonstrates the flexibility , generalizability , and interpretability
   of the proposed method , while reducing the need for extensive labeled
   datasets
DE clustering quality; convolutional layer; latent feature representation;
   pixel-wise clustering; principle component; unsupervised segmentation
ID cluster analysis; clustering algorithms; convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; image enhancement; image segmentation; labeled data; pixels;
   quality control; clustering quality; clusterings; convolutional layer;
   convolutional neural network; feature representation; image pixels; latent
   feature representation; pixel-wise clustering; principle component;
   unsupervised segmentation; eigenvalues and eigenfunctions

---

UT 1003
AR Ralhan S, 2025, BIO WEB CONF, V178, DOI 10.1051/bioconf/202517801006
TI Real Time Deep Learning Model for Food Item Identification and Recipe Data
   Generation
AU Ralhan S; Das RK; Srivastava S
TC 0
SO BIO WEB CONF
PY 2025
AB accurate and fast identification of various food items can be very useful ,
   in terms of preventing harm caused by allergies and other problems . in this
   work , an attempt is made to classify food items from real world images with
   great accuracy and in real time . the proposed model is designed in a dual
   phase classification method incorporating unsupervised clustering followed
   by a classification model to improve the initial prediction results . the
   dataset , selected primarily for its various food classes , consists of real
   world images of food , captured outside controlled conditions . during the
   first stage , clustering is used to group class predictions into clusters .
   in the next stage , the model for the cluster with the highest prediction
   value is loaded to make the final prediction . each cluster model is trained
   on a small subset of classes , reducing time and cost thereby improving
   performance . the accuracy metrics of the general model and some of the
   submodels are compared to see if using smaller label subsets provides
   improved performance without a large increase in training time . finally ,
   for the generation of detailed information about food items and suggested
   recipes , an llm will be integrated into the proposed model . custom prompts
   will be used to generate contextually relevant data more effectively . the
   authors , published by edp sciences .
DE classification; clustering; image recognition; llm; yolo

---

UT 1004
AR Wang R/5, 2025, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13782, DOI 10.1117/12.3074768
TI Deep-learning-based food recognition system
AU Wang R/5
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2025
AB deep learning has achieved remarkable results in many fields , and food
   recognition technology is widely used and promising in health management ,
   catering industry , and food safety supervision . in this paper , we focus
   on the field of food recognition and construct a set of food recognition
   system based on deep learning . in the process of system construction , a
   large amount of food image data is collected for preprocessing . tensorflow
   is used to build the cnn model , set up the convolutional layer , pooling
   layer and fully connected layer , carry out training and optimization , and
   train the model with the cross entropy loss function combined with l2
   regularization and adam optimizer , and finally evaluate the model
   performance through the results of the dataset . it is experimentally
   verified that the system achieves an average accuracy of 87 % on a specific
   test set , and the confusion matrix also visualizes the specifics of
   recognizing different food categories , which effectively proves the
   effectiveness and reliability of the system in the food recognition task .
   copyright spie . downloading of the abstract is permitted for personal use
   only .
DE convolutional neural networks; data preprocessing; deep learning; food
   recognition; model training and optimization
ID accident prevention; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks;
   food safety; learning systems; catering industries; convolutional neural
   network; data preprocessing; deep learning; food recognition; health
   management; industry safety; model optimization; model training; recognition
   systems; convolution

---

UT 1005
AR Movahedi S, 2025, MICROCHEM J, V212, DOI 10.1016/j.microc.2025.113395
TI Next-generation microfluidics based on artificial intelligence: Applications
   for food sample analysis
AU Movahedi S; Bahramian F; Ahmadi M; Pouyanfar N; Masoudifar R; Ghalkhani M;
   Hussain CM; Keçili R; Siavashy S; Ghorbani-Bidkorpeh F
TC 11
SO MICROCHEM J
PY 2025
AB background : microfluidics has transformed research across science ,
   offering advantages like reduced sample waste and costs over traditional
   methods . despite these benefits , microfluidics generates large datasets ,
   posing analysis challenges with conventional tools . to address this ,
   researchers integrate artificial intelligence ( ai ) with microfluidics . in
   food safety research , a critical area for human health , precise and
   reliable platforms are essential . ai integrated microfluidics platforms
   show promise , attracting attention for their unique advantages in food
   sample analysis . scope and approach : this review explores recent
   advancements in integrating artificial intelligence ( ai ) with
   microfluidics for food sample analysis . it introduces ai and microfluidics
   principles , discusses their synergistic applications , and examines various
   algorithms and microfluidic chip designs . it highlights ai microfluidics
   integration to enhance food analysis through data processing , pattern
   recognition , and predictive modeling . it then discusses progress ,
   challenges , and opportunities in this interdisciplinary approach and its
   potential impact on food analysis . key findings and conclusions :
   integrating ai and microfluidics creates a powerful platform for rapid
   detection in food analysis , enhancing accuracy , sensitivity , and real
   time data processing . this interdisciplinary approach unlocks new
   possibilities in food safety , quality control , and environmental
   assessment . future research should prioritize refining ai algorithms ,
   integrating advanced sensors , addressing scalability , and developing
   regulatory frameworks to support widespread adoption
DE artificial intelligence; food analysis; food safety; food sample;
   microfluidics

---

UT 1006
AR Dahl JF, 2025, FOOD HYDROCOLL, V160, DOI 10.1016/j.foodhyd.2024.110786
TI Predicting rheological parameters of food biopolymer mixtures using machine
   learning
AU Dahl JF; Schlangen M; Jan van der Goot A; Corredig M
TC 23
SO FOOD HYDROCOLL
PY 2025
AB predicting the properties of foods prepared with plant protein ingredients
   through hydrothermal processing remains challenging . this study uses
   compositional data to predict rheological properties of plant based
   biopolymer mixes using machine learning . samples containing protein
   concentrations ranging from 14 to 43 % were prepared using a range of
   formulations , based on yellow pea and faba bean protein ingredients . the
   formulations were mixed with 013 % polysaccharides , namely maize starch ,
   pectin , cellulose and carrageenan , to a final moisture ranging between 40
   and 72 % . these mixtures were relevant for high moisture extrusion
   processing . rheological data were collected in a closed cavity rheometer ,
   applying small , medium , and large amplitude oscillatory shear . data from
   140 unique formulations were subjected to cluster analysis to identify
   patterns in the dataset and variable importance analysis to identify key
   input features and relevant output rheological parameters . following ,
   multiple supervised machine learning regression models were evaluated , with
   single output random forest regression effectively predicting parameters in
   the linear viscoelastic regime , from compositional inputs , but not
   parameters in the non linear regime . accurate predictions of parameters in
   the non linear regime could be obtained using multi output random forest
   regression , with large deformation parameters as input . the results
   highlighted the interdependencies existing among rheological parameters ,
   and clearly brought evidence of the strength of using machine learning as a
   tool to predict the rheological properties of plant based biopolymer mixes ,
   and to highlight trends in the data which may lead to an increased
   mechanistic understanding of the effect of composition on the structure
   formation during high moisture extrusion
DE biopolymer mixes; closed cavity rheometer; machine learning; plant protein;
   rheology
ID data; extrusion; formulations; machinery; moisture; output; parameters;
   regression analysis; adversarial machine learning; cluster analysis;
   regression analysis; biopolymer mix; closed cavity; closed cavity rheometer;
   high moisture; machine learning; moisture extrusion; plant proteins; random
   forests; rheological parameter; rheological property; extrusion

---

UT 1007
AR Mipun P, 2026, FOOD RES INT, V228, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2026.118431
TI Ethnic fermentation secrets of Northeast India and emerging functional food
   insights
AU Mipun P; Sarma P; Dey G; Terangpi L; Hajong B; Chakraborty D; Kshetriya D;
   Mandal SM; Dinata R; Baindara P
TC 0
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2026
AB northeast india is home to an incredible variety of ethnic fermented foods ,
   shaped over centuries by cultural wisdom and adaptation to the local
   environment . from bamboo shoots , soybeans , and rice to fish , dairy ,
   vegetables , and traditional beverages , these foods are deeply woven into
   daily life and are rich in beneficial microorganisms with probiotic
   potential . understanding the microbial ecology , biochemical
   transformations , and functional metabolites of northeast india s
   traditional fermented foods provides a scientific basis for improving safety
   , identifying bioactive ingredients , and guiding the development of next
   generation fermented products . this review brings together insights from
   ethnomicrobiological surveys and culture based studies to explore the
   microbes , fermentation pathways , and biochemical changes that give these
   foods their distinctive qualities , as well as their nutritional benefits
   and safety considerations . we highlight lesser known products , examine
   toxin producing pathogens , and profile antimicrobial peptides ( amps ) ,
   uncovering varying levels of pathogen risk across products . additionally ,
   fermentation space analysis reveals exciting opportunities to create new
   foods by creatively combining local ingredients . finally , we look at how
   modern tools , including artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning
   ( ml ) , can help scale up production , standardize quality , and ensure
   safety . overall , by blending traditional knowledge with modern
   biotechnology and ai , these unique fermentation foods could find their
   place globally while preserving their cultural roots
DE antimicrobial peptides; ethnic foods; fermentation; food safety artificial
   intelligence; gut-health; nutrition; probiotics
ID ethnicity; fermentation; fermented foods; food microbiology; functional
   food; humans; india; probiotics; biochemistry; ecology; food ingredients;
   food microbiology; food safety; functional food; metabolites; nutrition;
   pathogens; probiotics; safety engineering; polypeptide antibiotic agent;
   probiotic agent; probiotic agent; antimicrobial peptide; ethnic food;
   fermented foods; food safety artificial intelligence; food safety;
   functionals; gut healths; local environments; northeast india; probiotics;
   artificial intelligence; bamboo; beverage; fermentation; fermented product;
   fish; food safety; functional food; human; intestine; machine learning;
   metabolite; nonhuman; review; rice; scale up; soybean; vegetable; ethnicity;
   fermented product; food control; india; microbiology; fermentation

---

UT 1008
AR Kumar Y, 2026, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V19, DOI 10.1007/s12161-026-03019-6
TI Computer Vision Technologies for Food Quality and Safety Assurance:
   Evaluating Trends and Analytical Results
AU Kumar Y; Rahul K; Arora N; Prasad Gupta R
TC 2
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2026
AB computer vision technologies have emerged as powerful tools for advancing
   food quality and safety assurance by enabling non invasive , automated
   inspection processes . in recent years , there has been a significant surge
   in the adoption of computer vision systems ( cvss ) , often integrated with
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and deep learning ( dl ) , to improve
   accuracy , speed , and consistency in evaluating food products . despite
   growing interest , the existing literature remains fragmented , with limited
   cross domain analysis and a lack of standardized frameworks for industrial
   implementation . this systematic review addresses the gap by analyzing
   multiple peer reviewed studies and identifying key application areas , model
   architectures , and evaluation metrics across various segments of the food
   sector , including fruits , vegetables , meat , grains , and dairy . the
   findings highlight that cv based systems outperform traditional methods in
   objectivity , efficiency , and scalability , particularly when combined with
   ai approaches . the review concludes by identifying the need for
   standardized datasets , real time multi modal systems , the integration of
   cv with robotics and iot for next generation smart food processing , and
   future research directions
DE artificial intelligence; bibliometric analysis; computer vision; food
   quality; food safety; image processing; smart food systems
ID artificial intelligence; food processing; food safety; image quality;
   processed foods; quality assurance; quality control; safety engineering;
   analytical results; bibliometrics analysis; computer vision technology; food
   quality; food quality and safeties; food system; food safety; images
   processing; safety assurance; smart food system; computer vision

---

UT 1009
AR Jeon J, 2026, BIORESOUR TECHNOL, V453, DOI 10.1016/j.biortech.2026.134649
TI Integrating metagenomics and explainable artificial intelligence for
   modeling of food waste treatment using full-scale anaerobic digestion
AU Jeon J; Nguyen HT; Yeo G; Lee C/3; Cho S-K; Oh S
TC 0
SO BIORESOUR TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB anaerobic digestion ( ad ) , a biochemical process that can convert food
   waste ( fw ) into methane , offers great promise as a sustainable form of
   energy production . while several attempts have been made to optimize ad
   systems using various mathematical models , more precise modeling approaches
   that fully consider the complexity of the ad process are required , leading
   to the adoption of artificial intelligence ( ai ) as a suitable alternative
   to numerical modeling . in line with this , the present study tested 11 ai
   based models on their prediction of the methane yield for a full scale ad
   process using fw as a feedstock . the models incorporated operational
   parameters , environmental conditions , and microbial information to improve
   their predictive performance . although a one dimensional convolutional
   neural network ( 1d cnn ) was the most precise , random forest regression (
   rfr ) was selected as the optimal model for further analysis due to its
   superior interpretability and stability . explainable ai ( xai ) was then
   used to determine the most important input features contributing to the
   predictions of the optimal ai model , thus allowing for detailed model
   interpretation . methanothrix was identified as a key predictor of methane
   yield , and metagenomic analysis provided independent genome level evidence
   broadly consistent with the xai results . overall , this study proposes a
   novel approach to the interpretation and optimization of ad performance ,
   rather than focusing only on enhancing the predictive performance of a
   discrete model
DE machine learning; methane yield prediction; microbial analysis; model
   interpretability; organic waste
ID anaerobiosis; artificial intelligence; food; food loss and waste;
   metagenomics; methane; neural networks computer; refuse disposal; data
   mining; food waste; forecasting; learning systems; methane; neural networks;
   optimal systems; methane; anaerobics; food waste; interpretability; machine
   learning; methane yield; methane yield prediction; microbial analysis; model
   interpretability; organic wastes; yield prediction; anaerobic growth;
   artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; biosynthesis; food; food
   waste; metagenomics; procedures; waste disposal; anaerobic digestion

---

UT 1010
AR Yang Y/4, 2025, NUTR, V17, DOI 10.3390/nu17091461
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Bank and Pantry Services: A Systematic
   Review
AU Yang Y/4; An R; Fang C; Ferris D
TC 6
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB background / objectives : food banks and pantries play a critical role in
   improving food security through allocating essential resources to households
   that lack consistent access to sufficient and nutritious food . however ,
   these organizations encounter significant operational challenges , including
   variability in food donations , volunteer shortages , and difficulties in
   matching supply with demand . artificial intelligence ( ai ) has become
   increasingly prevalent in various sectors of the food industry and related
   services , highlighting its potential applicability in addressing these
   operational complexities . methods : this study systematically reviewed
   empirical evidence on ai applications in food banks and pantry services
   published before 15 april 2025 . the review followed the preferred reporting
   items for systematic reviews and meta analyses ( prisma ) guidelines . a
   comprehensive keyword and reference search was conducted in 11 electronic
   bibliographic databases : pubmed , web of science , scopus , medline , apa
   psycarticles , apa psycinfo , cinahl plus , econlit with full text , applied
   science and technology full text ( h . w . wilson ) , family and society
   studies worldwide , and socindex . results : we identified five peer
   reviewed papers published from 2015 to 2024 , four of which utilized
   structured data machine learning algorithms , including neural networks , k
   means clustering , random forests , and bayesian additive regression trees .
   the remaining study employed text based topic modeling to analyze food bank
   and pantry services . of the five papers , three focused on the food
   donation process , and two examined food collection and distribution .
   discussion : collectively , these studies show the emerging potential for ai
   applications to enhance food bank and pantry operations . however , notable
   limitations were identified , including the scarcity of studies on this
   topic , restricted geographic scopes , and methodological challenges such as
   the insufficient discussion of data representativeness and statistical power
   . none of the studies addressed ai ethics , including model bias and
   fairness , or discussed intervention and policy implications in depth .
   further studies should investigate innovative ai driven solutions within
   food banks and pantries to help alleviate food insecurity
DE artificial intelligence; artificial intelligence ethics; data science; food
   banks; food pantries; food services; systematic review
ID artificial intelligence; food assistance; food security; food supply;
   humans; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; bayesian
   network; catering service; cinahl; cost benefit analysis; cost effectiveness
   analysis; food assistance; food availability; food bank; food industry; food
   insecurity; fuzzy clustering; health care facility; human; k fold cross
   validation; k-means clustering; machine learning algorithm; medline;
   multilayer perceptron; nutrition policy; preferred reporting items for
   systematic reviews and meta-analyses; psycinfo; random forest; review;
   scopus; supermarket; supply chain; systematic review; web of science; food
   assistance; food security

---

UT 1011
AR Panaligan D, 2025, ARTIF INTELL MICROBIOL ENV FOOD PLANT CLIN MICROBIOL,
   P153, DOI 10.1515/9783111548777-008
TI Artificial intelligence in microbial food safety
AU Panaligan D; Sarza RM; Sy ICB
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL MICROBIOL ENV FOOD PLANT CLIN MICROBIOL
PY 2025
AB over 500 million people get sick annually due to the consumption of foods
   contaminated with microbial hazards like bacteria , viruses , and parasites
   . conventionally , these are addressed through integrated food safety
   systems implemented along the food supply chain . however , these have
   become increasingly globalized , with foods often crossing multiple
   international borders as they move from ' farm to fork . ' this increasing
   globalization , combined with the resource intensive nature of conventional
   systems , causes disparities and lapses in food safety compliance . ai has
   the potential to bridge these gaps by offering more efficient and cost
   effective tools for the detection , monitoring , and control of microbial
   foodborne diseases ( fbds ) . furthermore , ai can process existing data .
   including search results , social media posts , and various databases . and
   correlate them to fbds . the global state of the art use of ai for microbial
   food safety applications as well as future potential applications will be
   discussed in this chapter . 2025 walter de gruyter gmbh , berlin / boston ,
   genthiner strae 13 , 10785 berlin
DE ai; food value chain; foodborne diseases; health; microbial food safety;
   outbreaks
ID accident prevention; biohazards; chains; chemical contamination; cost
   effectiveness; disease control; food microbiology; food safety; food supply;
   security systems; supply chains; food safety systems; food supply chain;
   food value chain; food safety; foodborne disease; microbial food safety;
   microbials; outbreak; parasite-; value chains; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1012
AR Li J/6, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V490, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.145170
TI Analysis of food safety based on machine learning: A comprehensive review
   and future prospects
AU Li J/6; Wu A; Liu L/1; Qu A; Xu C; Kuang H; Xu L
TC 16
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB food safety challenges escalate with global population growth and complex
   supply chains . traditional analytical methods , though precise , face
   limitations in speed and adaptability . machine learning ( ml ) offers data
   driven solutions , excelling in contaminant detection ( pesticides , heavy
   metals , microbes ) , quality assessment via image / sensory analysis , and
   supply chain traceability . despite its potential , ml confronts challenges
   like data quality inconsistencies , model interpretability gaps , and a lack
   of standardized protocols . future advancements hinge on optimizing
   algorithms for accuracy , enhancing transparency through explainable ai ,
   integrating internet of things for real time monitoring , and establishing
   regulatory frameworks . these innovations promise to transform food safety
   analysis , ensuring safer and traceable food globally
DE analytical technique; deep learning; food adulteration; food analysis; food
   safety; machine learning
ID food contamination; food safety; humans; machine learning; chemical
   contamination; data accuracy; data quality; food safety; learning systems;
   metal analysis; population statistics; quality control; safety engineering;
   supply chains; heavy metal; pesticide; analytical technique; deep learning;
   food adulterations; food analysis; food safety; future prospects; global
   population; machine learning; on-machines; population growth; algorithm;
   analytic method; data quality; deep learning; electric potential;
   explainable artificial intelligence; food; food analysis; food safety;
   human; internet of things; machine learning; nonhuman; pharmaceutics;
   population growth; quality control; review; safety assessment; sensory
   analysis; supply chain; velocity; food contamination; procedures; deep
   learning

---

UT 1013
AR Yusop N, 2025, PROC - INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL MUSLIM WORLD ICT4M, DOI
   10.1109/ICT4M68001.2025.11363560
TI A Usability Test of Halal Food Classification of Machine Learning and
   Lexical Mapping
AU Yusop N; Mustafa N; Mohd Ezani MF; Aiza Moketar N; Zaraini MN; Hakimi H
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL MUSLIM WORLD ICT4M
PY 2025
AB the halal food market is expanding rapidly worldwide , owing to increased
   muslim populations and growing consumer concern about food safety , ethical
   sourcing , and religious conformity . however , identifying the halal status
   of modern food products remains difficult due to multilingual labeling ,
   unclear ingredient names , and differing regional nomenclature . this paper
   describes a novel multilingual classification system that uses machine
   learning ( ml ) and malay arabic lexical mapping to automate halal food
   recognition . a support vector machine ( svm ) , random forest and multi
   nomial model trained on a curated dataset of 3,000 labeled food items
   outperformed other classifiers , with an f1-score of 0.91. to reduce
   semantic ambiguity and improve interpretability , a lexical mapping module
   was created that connects local malay food phrases to arabic ideas obtained
   from quranic and fiqh sources . a mobile friendly prototype was developed
   and tested using 10 muslim participants . the results show high user
   satisfaction ( sus score : 84.5 ) , high task success rates ( 96 % ) , and
   improved user confidence through transparent classification explanations .
   this study presents a hybrid ai framework that integrates linguistic ,
   cultural , and religious domains , to yield a scalable and interpretable
   solution for halal food classification . the method has potential for use in
   consumer applications , certification systems , and islamic informatics
   research
DE arabic translation; halal food; lexical mapping; machine learning; usability
   test
ID food products; food safety; learning systems; natural language processing
   systems; semantics; support vector machines; arabic translation;
   classification system; food markets; food safety; halal food; labelings;
   lexical mapping; machine learning; support vectors machine; usability tests;
   mapping

---

UT 1014
AR Pusparani Y, 2025, ICCE-TAIWAN - IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON - TAIWAN
   GENER AI INNOV CONSUM TECHNOL PROC, P663, DOI 10.1109/ICCE-
   Taiwan66881.2025.11207943
TI The Classification of Food Logos Using Convolutional Neural Networks
AU Pusparani Y; Muhdaliha B; Ardhianto P; Ramadhan GT; Prisilla AA; Liau B-Y;
   Jan Y-K; Chao W-H; Lung C-W
TC 0
SO ICCE-TAIWAN - IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON - TAIWAN GENER AI INNOV CONSUM
   TECHNOL PROC
PY 2025
AB this study explores the relationship between health conditions like diabetes
   and food choices based on logos . it recognizes diabetes as a major global
   health threat . we apply convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) to classify
   food logos and improve consumer decision making . in this study , we trained
   505 logo images on pre trained resnet50 , resnet50 , and lenet models . pre
   trained resnet50 outperformed the others , achieving an accuracy of 0.89 ,
   compared to 0.80 for resnet50 and 0.81 for lenet . our findings suggest that
   pre trained resnet50 is most effective for logo classification . this
   approach could enhance human machine interaction and inform healthier food
   purchasing decisions
DE convolutional neural network; food choice; healthy life; lenet; logo;
   resnet50
ID computer vision; convolutional neural networks; decision making; health
   risks; information systems; consumer decision making; convolutional neural
   network; food choice; global health; health condition; healthy life; lenet;
   logo; logo classification; resnet50; convolution

---

UT 1015
AR Nalbone L, 2026, ITAL J FOOD SAF, V15, DOI 10.4081/ijfs.2026.13491
TI Machine learning and food inspection: use of Bayesian Network modeling to
   support official controls in the food industries
AU Nalbone L; Forgia S; Giarratana F; Ziino G; Monaco S; Macchia SL; Giuffrida
   A
TC 0
SO ITAL J FOOD SAF
PY 2026
AB this study aims to develop a machine learning model capable of predicting
   the type of non compliance ( nc ) most likely to be detected by competent
   authorities during official control of food establishments based on their
   structural , product , and management characteristics . a bayesian network (
   bn ) model was developed using data from 145 ncs detected by the local
   health authority of messina during 588 official controls performed on 101
   approved food establishments between 2018 and 2021 . the ncs were classified
   into 10 distinct categories based on the requirement not met : i )
   structural and equipment conditions . ii ) water supply . iii ) fight
   against pests . iv ) hygiene of staff and processing . v ) cleaning and
   sanitizing conditions . vi ) raw materials , semi finished and finished
   products . vii ) labeling . viii ) traceability . ix ) hazard analysis and
   critical control points ( haccp ) . and x ) microbiological criteria
   according to regulation ( ec ) 2005/2073 . the model was constructed by
   associating the number and type of nc with the criteria and corresponding
   evaluations established by the veterinary services for each food
   establishment risk categorization according to annex 2 of the intesa stato
   regioni csr 212/2016 . in detail , 8 different criteria were considered : i
   ) date of construction or renovation . ii ) general maintenance conditions .
   iii ) marketing area . iv ) food category . v ) product intended use . vi )
   professionalism of management . vii ) hygienic sanitary training of
   employees . and viii ) haccp self control plan . the bn model was
   implemented using the hugin lite software , considering the nc type as the
   parent node and the 8 different criteria as the child nodes . the
   implemented model allowed the prediction of the most probable type of ncs by
   inputting the evaluations of each risk categorization criterion for a given
   food establishment into the child nodes . a total of 25 ncs detected in 10
   food establishments during 2024 were used to validate the model . the
   validation cases were not included in the learning dataset . the model
   correctly predicted the occurrence of 19 ncs ( 76 % ) , while 6 ncs ( 24 % )
   were not predicted , and 3 ncs ( 12 % ) were rightly predicted as the most
   probable ones . although further efforts are needed to implement the model
   with a greater amount of data , this study highlights the potential of a bn
   based approach as a valuable tool for competent authorities in organizing
   and performing official controls from a new technological and sustainable
   perspective . the author ( s ) , .
DE ai; artificial intelligence; food control; naive bayes; neural network

---

UT 1016
AR Adla A, 2026, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V479 SIST, P64, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-18974-5_6
TI A Cloud and Fog Computing Framework for Collaborative Food Supply Chain
AU Adla A; Bouhalouan D; Mahraz AO; Frendi M
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB the evolution of simple local and linear supply chains ( sc ) to supply
   network . this new concept of scm has thrived important information
   exchanges between stakeholders , which has given rise to new requirements to
   ensure traceability . the diversity of actors and their language differences
   make food traceability a challenging task and collaboration between them
   arduous . we develop a highly expressive system to enable the stakeholders
   to collaborate and communicate in effectively . subsequently , the proposed
   system will model knowledge and rules in an ontology such that information
   exchange between all actors is enhanced with a common language , and trace
   and track goods innovate technologies such fog and cloud computing , and as
   internet of things ( iot ) . to test the system , various queries are
   carried out to cater different food traceability needs . the results show
   that the developed system has the expressiveness needed to describe all the
   knowledge related to the food supply chain , allowing interoperability
   between collaborative actors and data integration
DE cloud and fog computing; food traceability; iot; ontology; supply chain
   management
ID data integration; fog; fog computing; information dissemination; query
   processing; supply chains; chain management; computing frameworks; food
   supply chain; food traceabilitys; information exchanges; linear supplies;
   model knowledge; ontologys; simple++; supply networks; internet of things

---

UT 1017
AR Yang T, 2025, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13681, DOI 10.1117/12.3074564
TI Research on the Food Recognition Technology of Computer Vision-Based Smart
   Microwave Oven
AU Yang T; Yao A; Kapogiannis G; Kang B-G
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2025
AB the society have observed a significant increase in intelligent products
   over recent years , which has enhanced work efficiency and quality , and
   concurrently raised living standards . microwave ovens , essential in
   contemporary life , provide significant convenience , but traditional models
   lack advanced cooking capabilities . this research aims to develop an
   innovative intelligent microwave oven capable of automatic food recognition
   and cooking . this research employs computer vision technology and the
   yolov5 algorithm for precise identification of food types . the designed
   food recognition technology has shown promising results , establishing a
   foundation for future advancements in intelligent microwave technology
DE computer vision; intelligent interaction; smart microwave oven; yolo
ID cooking; food ingredients; microwave ovens; microwave technology; computer
   vision technology; intelligent interactions; living standards; microwave
   technology; smart microwave oven; traditional models; vision based; work
   efficiency; work quality; yolo; computer vision

---

UT 1018
AR Sutanto H, 2025, CURR TREAT OPTIONS ALLERGY, V12, DOI
   10.1007/s40521-025-00395-y
TI Harnessing Neural Networks for Food Allergy Diagnosis, Management, and
   Research: A Review of Current Applications and Future Prospects
AU Sutanto H; Fetarayani D
TC 2
SO CURR TREAT OPTIONS ALLERGY
PY 2025
AB purpose of review : food allergies are a significant public health issue ,
   impacting millions worldwide and posing substantial healthcare challenges .
   the goal of this review is to explore how neural networks can improve food
   allergy diagnosis , management , and research . specifically , this paper
   examines their potential applications in allergen detection , risk
   prediction , personalized treatment strategies , and epidemiological
   analysis , while also addressing key challenges and future research
   directions . recent findings : recent advancements in artificial
   intelligence have demonstrated the potential of neural networks in food
   allergy science . neural networks have been applied in diagnosing food
   allergies through genetic and clinical data analysis , improving allergen
   detection through imaging and spectroscopy , and personalizing immunotherapy
   for better treatment outcomes . additionally , artificial intelligence
   models are enhancing epidemiological studies by analyzing large scale
   datasets to identify trends and risk factors associated with food allergies
   . however , challenges such as data variability , model interpretability ,
   and ethical concerns remain barriers to widespread clinical adoption .
   summary : neural networks are revolutionizing food allergy research by
   enabling precise diagnostics , advancing personalized treatment approaches ,
   and improving allergen detection techniques . their ability to process
   complex datasets and identify subtle patterns holds promise for enhancing
   patient outcomes and public health interventions . despite their potential ,
   further research is needed to address data standardization , ethical
   considerations , and transparency in ai driven decision making . by
   fostering interdisciplinary collaboration , neural networks can play a
   pivotal role in the future of food allergy science , ultimately improving
   the quality of life for affected individuals
DE allergology; artificial intelligence; food allergy; neural network;
   precision medicine

---

UT 1019
AR Bonatto D, 2026, FOOD HUMANIT, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2026.101083
TI A new classification system of beer categories and styles based on large-
   scale data mining and self-organizing maps of beer recipes
AU Bonatto D
TC 0
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2026
AB a data driven quantitative approach was used to develop a novel
   classification system for beer categories and styles . a total of 62,121
   beer recipes were mined and analyzed , considering ingredient profiles ,
   fermentation parameters , and recipe vital statistics . statistical analyzes
   , combined with self organizing maps ( soms ) , identified four major
   superclusters that exhibited distinctive malt and hop usage patterns , style
   characteristics , and historical brewing traditions . cold fermented styles
   showed a conservative grain and hop composition , whereas hot fermented
   beers exhibited greater heterogeneity , reflecting regional preferences and
   innovation . this new taxonomy offers a reproducible and objective framework
   beyond traditional sensory based classifications , providing brewers ,
   researchers , and educators with a scalable tool for recipe analysis and
   beer development . the findings in this work provide insight into beer
   diversity and open avenues for linking ingredient use with fermentation
   profiles and flavor outcomes
DE beer style classification; brewing ingredients analysis; fermentation
   profiling; recipe data mining; self-organizing maps ( soms ); unsupervised
   machine learning

---

UT 1020
AR Cheng S-T, 2025, APPL SCI, V15, DOI 10.3390/app15094911
TI Image-Based Nutritional Advisory System: Employing Multimodal Deep Learning
   for Food Classification and Nutritional Analysis
AU Cheng S-T; Lyu Y-J; Teng C
TC 3
SO APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB accurate dietary assessment is essential for effective health management and
   disease prevention . however , conventional methods that rely on manual food
   logging and nutritional lookup are often time consuming and error prone .
   this study proposes an image based nutritional advisory system that
   integrates multimodal deep learning to automate food classification , volume
   estimation , and dietary recommendation to address these limitations . the
   system employs a fine tuned clip model for zero shot food recognition ,
   achieving high accuracy across diverse food categories , including unseen
   items . for volume measurement , a learning based multi view stereo ( mvs )
   approach eliminates the need for specialized hardware , yielding reliable
   estimations with a mean absolute percentage error ( mape ) of 23.5 % across
   standard food categories . nutritional values are then calculated by
   referencing verified food composition databases . furthermore , the system
   leverages a large language model ( llama 3 ) to generate personalized
   dietary advice tailored to individual health goals . the experimental
   results show that the system attains a top 1 classification accuracy of 91 %
   on cnfood 241 and 80 % on food 101 and delivers high quality recommendation
   texts with a bleu 4 score of 45.13. these findings demonstrate the system s
   potential as a practical and scalable tool for automated dietary management
   , offering improved precision , convenience , and user experience
DE computer vision; dietary control; image classification; large language
   model; volume estimation
ID vitamins; advisory systems; dietary assessments; dietary control; health
   management; image-based; images classification; language model; large
   language model; multi-modal; volume estimations; nutrition

---

UT 1021
AR Hossain S, 2025, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT MACH INTELL ICMI - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ICMI65310.2025.11141045
TI Using Machine Learning Algorithm to Determine Food Expiration Status in
   Smart Refrigerators
AU Hossain S
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT MACH INTELL ICMI - PROC
PY 2025
AB this study investigates the application of convolutional neural networks (
   cnns ) for real time food quality assessment and inventory management in
   smart refrigeration systems . three pre trained cnn architecturesvgg19 ,
   xception , and resnet50-were evaluated using image data from the flickr api
   to classify food items as fresh or spoiled . vgg19 demonstrated superior
   performance with a validation accuracy of approximately 98 % , while
   xception exhibited signs of overfitting . furthermore , a custom cnn model
   was developed to assess stock depletion using userprovided images ,
   revealing that the incorporation of dense layers significantly enhanced
   classification accuracy from 77 % to 87 % . these findings underscore the
   potential of cnn driven automation in optimizing food preservation and
   supply monitoring within intelligent refrigeration systems
DE convolution neural network; image analysis; machine learning; resnet50; vgg
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; food preservation; image classification; image enhancement;
   inventory control; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine learning;
   real time systems; refrigeration; refrigerators; convolution neural network;
   convolutional neural network; image analyze; image analysis; machine
   learning algorithms; machine learning; real- time; refrigeration system;
   resnet50; vgg; image analysis

---

UT 1022
AR Du H, 2025, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, V19, P9446, DOI 10.1007/s11694-025-03647-2
TI Deep learning-enhanced food ingredient segmentation with co-occurrence
   relationship constraints
AU Du H; Wang M/3; Fang Q; Shen M; Sun L
TC 1
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2025
AB accurate ingredient level segmentation is critical for intelligent dietary
   assessment , yet it remains challenging due to severe class imbalance and
   the visual ambiguity of cooked foods . this study aims to enhance
   segmentation accuracy , particularly for low prevalence ingredients , by
   incorporating domain specific culinary knowledge into deep learning models .
   we propose a general framework that leverages ingredient co occurrence
   relationship constraints to guide the training of deep learning segmentation
   models . by statistically analyzing ingredient pairing patterns in large
   scale datasets ( foodseg103 and recipe1m + ) , we construct co occurrence
   matrices that capture the likelihood of ingredients appearing together .
   these matrices are integrated into the loss function of a you net
   architecture with various state of the art encoders , providing contextual
   priors to improve model learning . our method achieves significant and
   statistically significant performance gains across multiple encoder
   backbones . on the foodseg103 dataset , it improves the mean intersection
   over union ( miou ) by up to 3.72 % and the f1-score by 3.65 % . more
   notably , when utilizing the larger recipe1m + dataset to construct the co
   occurrence matrix , the miou improvement reaches a remarkable 16.54 % ,
   demonstrating strong generalization capabilities . critically , for the
   efficientnet b7 model using the recipe1m + matrix , the approach achieves a
   dramatic 755 % improvement in miou for the least frequent 10 % of ingredient
   classes , effectively mitigating the class imbalance problem . the approach
   maintains real time inference capability with a latency of 15.68 ms on a
   standard gpu . this work effectively addresses the class imbalance problem
   in food segmentation by integrating external culinary knowledge through co
   occurrence matrices . the consistent and statistically significant
   performance improvements validate the framework s robustness . the method
   offers strong practical value for applications in automated dietary
   monitoring systems , smart dining platforms , and nutritional analysis tools
DE culinary pattern recognition; deep learning in food science; dietary
   assessment; food composition analysis; food segmentation; ingredient co-
   occurrence modeling
ID food additives; food chemistry; food ingredients; image segmentation;
   knowledge management; large datasets; learning systems; matrix algebra;
   nutrition; pattern recognition; co-occurrence; composition analysis;
   culinary pattern recognition; deep learning in food science; dietary
   assessments; food composition analyze; food compositions; food science; food
   segmentation; ingredient co-occurrence modeling; occurrence model; deep
   learning

---

UT 1023
AR Xue C, 2026, ICHEC - PROC INT CONF HUMAN-ENGAGED COMPUT, DOI
   10.1145/3786995.3787068
TI FoodOralSense: A Computer Vision-based Food Oral Processing Behavior
   Analysis System
AU Xue C; Zhang Q/2; Zhang L/5; Zhang K/1; Jeung J
TC 0
SO ICHEC - PROC INT CONF HUMAN-ENGAGED COMPUT
PY 2026
AB food oral processing plays a critical role in shaping eating experiences ,
   nutrition , and health , yet current research methods rely heavily on
   subjective reporting or specialized laboratory equipment . we present
   foodoralsense , a computer vision based system that provides a standardized
   and automated approach to analyzing oral processing behavior . the system
   leverages the segment anything model ( sam ) for accurate segmentation of
   food bolus morphology and a novel spatial grid model to quantify chewing
   behavior . in a controlled study , participants consumed specially designed
   three layer jelly samples while their chewing was recorded through
   synchronized questionnaires , video , and image capture . results show high
   recognition accuracy ( 98 % ) and reveal distinctive spatial patterns of
   oral processing . beyond technical validation , foodoralsense highlights
   opportunities for integrating food science , health monitoring , and human
   food interaction within the hci community , offering a new foundation for
   scalable , data driven insights into eating behavior
DE behavior analysis; computer vision; food oral processing behavior; image
   segmentation
ID behavioral research; computer aided analysis; computer vision; food
   processing; human computer interaction; human engineering; image analysis;
   laboratories; processed foods; current; analysis system; behavior analysis;
   food oral processing behavior; images segmentations; laboratory equipments;
   oral processing; research method; vision based; vision based system; image
   segmentation

---

UT 1024
AR Prajveen VD, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1668 LNNS, P67, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-07735-6_7
TI Discount Optimisation in Food Delivery Using Machine Learning
AU Prajveen VD; Dilipkumar S; Saigal A
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the rapid growth of online food delivery services has generated vast amounts
   of data that offer valuable insights . this data provides significant
   information about consumer behavior , operational efficiency , and market
   trends . this study presents a comprehensive machine learning ( ml )
   pipeline to analyze food delivery data , integrating demographic attributes
   , order details , and food preferences . the research includes data
   preprocessing , exploratory data analysis ( eda ) , regression modeling ,
   hyperparameter tuning , and feature importance evaluation . additionally ,
   we applied advanced customer segmentation techniques to identify key
   consumer groups along with their distinct characteristics . the findings
   reveal crucial factors influencing delivery time , order value , and
   customer satisfaction . by leveraging predictive modeling and clustering
   algorithms , this study offers actionable intelligence for stakeholders to
   optimize service quality , manage inventory , personalize offerings ,
   provide tailored menus , optimize discounts , and enhance operational
   strategies in the food delivery ecosystem
DE behavioral targeting algorithms; operational efficiency metrics; seasonal
   demand trends; temporal demand forecasting
ID clustering algorithms; consumer behavior; efficiency; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; machine learning; optimization; population statistics;
   regression analysis; behavioral targeting algorithm; behavioral targeting;
   demand forecasting; efficiency metrics; food delivery; operational
   efficiencies; operational efficiency metric; seasonal demand trend; seasonal
   demands; temporal demand forecasting; customer satisfaction

---

UT 1025
AR Wong K, 2025, CURR OPIN COLLOID INTERFACE SCI, V78, DOI
   10.1016/j.cocis.2025.101937
TI Machine learning for food colloids: Novel tools to advance fundamental
   understanding, stability, texture, and processability
AU Wong K; Arruda TR; Butler KT; Guldin S; Schrettl S
TC 9
SO CURR OPIN COLLOID INTERFACE SCI
PY 2025
AB evolving demands for healthier and more sustainable foods require
   reformulating ingredients and innovating production processes while
   maintaining sensory quality and shelf life . because traditional physics
   based models struggle with the multi scale complexity of food colloids ,
   machine learning ( ml ) has emerged as a powerful alternative for predicting
   the behavior of these systems , in which dispersed components critically
   shape texture and functionality . this article highlights recent ml
   applications to enhance colloidal stability and rheological properties ,
   demonstrating how supervised and unsupervised algorithms can capture complex
   , nonlinear relationships . key examples include neural networks and
   chemometric models that predict emulsion stability , monitor microstructures
   , and forecast gel strength . we further discuss how ml driven approaches
   reduce time consuming experimental work and accelerate product innovation .
   looking ahead , future opportunities lie in leveraging larger datasets ,
   adopting inverse design strategies , and implementing insights from adjacent
   fields to deliver the next generation of data informed , functional food
   colloids
ID colloids; food ingredients; inverse problems; learning systems; machine
   learning; prediction models; food colloids; machine learning applications;
   machine learning; multi-scales; physics-based models; processability;
   production process; quality life; sensory qualities; shelf life; algorithm;
   colloid; emulsion; functional food; human; machine learning; machine
   learning software; nerve cell network; pharmaceutics; review; shelf life;
   emulsification

---

UT 1026
AR Osemwowa EU, 2026, FOOD ADDIT CONTAM, V43, P795, DOI
   10.1080/19440049.2026.2654716
TI The application of artificial intelligence in food fraud and adulteration
   analysis: a review
AU Osemwowa EU
TC 0
SO FOOD ADDIT CONTAM
PY 2026
AB food fraud represents a critical challenge to global food safety and
   economic integrity , costing the industry an estimated $ 1040 billion
   annually . traditional analytical methods , while effective , are often time
   consuming and resource intensive . artificial intelligence and machine
   learning technologies are revolutionizing food authentication by offering
   unprecedented capabilities in detecting , predicting , and preventing
   fraudulent practices . this review examines the integration of artificial
   intelligence with analytical techniques , explores current applications
   across the food supply chain , discusses challenges in implementation , and
   identifies future directions for intelligent food fraud detection systems
DE artificial intelligence; food adulteration; food fraud; food safety; supply
   chain
ID artificial intelligence; food analysis; food contamination; food safety;
   fraud; humans; accident prevention; artificial intelligence; chains; costs;
   crime; food industry; food safety; food security; food supply; learning
   systems; current; analytical method; artificial intelligence learning;
   critical challenges; food adulterations; food authentications; food fraud;
   food supply chain; food safety; machine learning technology; artificial
   intelligence; catering service; food; food safety; fraud; human; machine
   learning; nonhuman; review; supply chain; therapy; food analysis; food
   contamination; food safety; supply chains

---

UT 1027
AR Chenna K, 2026, INT J ADV MANUF TECHNOL, V143, P2393, DOI
   10.1007/s00170-026-17542-7
TI Integrated SAP S/4HANA production planning with AGI warehouse management
   system and laboratory information management system
AU Chenna K
TC 0
SO INT J ADV MANUF TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB this paper focuses on a comprehensive case study of a mid size chocolate
   manufacturer who integrated sap s/4hana production planning ( pp ) with agi
   warehouse management system ( wms ) and laboratory information management
   system ( lims ) . the integration was pursued to ameliorate chronic
   production backlogs , inventory inaccuracies and quality risks that in the
   past accrue millions of dollars of annual costs . by synchronizing planning
   , execution and quality control in real time , the company saved 92 per cent
   of backlog clearance time , 35 per cent on inventory accuracy and reduced
   rework by 20 per cent . financial analysis showed that the savings incurred
   annually are in the range of us $ 2.5 million to us $ 3.0 million , based on
   avoided retailer penalties , reduced scrap and rework , increased labor
   productivity , and increased compliance of promotion . seasonal demand
   analysis showed how the integration allowed the firm to deal with easter and
   christmas peaks without being penalized or paying for expedited freight .
   the study provides a replicable blueprint for food manufacturers that are
   looking for operational excellence in the context of industry 4.0.
   furthermore , this case study incorporates modern techniques such as
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) based
   optimization to complement the erp systems in order to improve the supply
   chain management and real time decision making processes
DE agi-wms; ai-driven optimization; chocolate manufacturing; erp integration;
   erp modernisation; financial impact; lims-; machine learning food
   manufacturing; operational excellence; production planning; quality control;
   real time inventory; sap s/4hana; seasonal demand; supply chain management
   industry 40
ID decision making; enterprise resource management; enterprise resource
   planning; industry 40; information management; inventory control; iodine
   compounds; learning systems; machine learning; management information
   systems; production control; supply chain management; supply chains;
   warehouses; agi-wms; ai-driven optimization; chain management; chocolate
   manufacturing; erp integration; erp modernization; financial impacts; food
   manufacturing; laboratory information management system; laboratory
   information management system-; machine learning food manufacturing; machine
   learning; operational excellence; optimizations; production planning; real
   time inventory; sap s/4hana; seasonal demands; supply chain management
   industry 40; quality control

---

UT 1028
AR Galali Y, 2026, EFOOD, V7, DOI 10.1002/efd2.70165
TI Application of Artificial Intelligence in Food Science and Nutrition:
   Challenges and Future Perspectives
AU Galali Y; Hadi P; Hassan AM; Balaky HH; Rashid TS; Sadee BA; Salih TS;
   Hassanzadeh H
TC 0
SO EFOOD
PY 2026
AB the artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) advent has
   proclaimed unparalleled knowledge transformation across several sectors ,
   including food science and nutrition . this advancement can aid in a deeper
   understanding of the insights of both fields and their subfields . a
   systematic search was conducted across literature resources in many
   databases , including web of science , scopus , and pubmed , according to
   prisma guidelines . the possible eligible study data were retrieved to
   assess eligibility and inclusion criteria . this research comprehensively
   explores the use ai applications in food science , such as the food industry
   and processing , food safety and packaging , and nutrition , including food
   and nutrient intake , supplements , clinical nutrition , gut microbiota ,
   and trace elements intake . ai applications can be very helpful in
   addressing various issues , developing novel techniques in food production ,
   food safety , and quality , and aiding in planning nutrition and nutrient
   intake for better health with high accuracy and precision . despite these
   advancements in the application of ai and ml in both food science and
   nutrition , more improvement is needed for more efficient , precise , and
   accurate application in some fields . 2026 the author ( s ) . efood
   published by john wiley and sons australia , ltd on behalf of international
   association of dietetic nutrition and safety .
DE artificial intelligence; data process; food science and nutrition; imaging;
   machine learning
ID accident prevention; dietary supplements; food safety; machine learning;
   nutrition; artificial intelligence learning; data process; food nutrition;
   food science; food safety; future perspectives; knowledge transformation;
   machine learning; subfields; systematic searches; learning systems

---

UT 1029
AR Gao J, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V164, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105204
TI Machine learning-driven innovations in food processing: A systematic review
   of applications, challenges, and future developments
AU Gao J; Wang S/6; Erdogdu F; Marra F; Sarghini F; Chen L
TC 20
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : food processing is influenced by multiple factors ( e . g . ,
   material properties and processing parameters ) , leading to analytical
   complexity . conventional methods ( experiments or mathematical /
   mechanistic models ) have limitations , such as high costs , high
   extrapolation errors , and modeling constraints . machine learning ( ml ) ,
   a data driven approach , offers strong nonlinear fitting capabilities to
   integrate multi factor interactions for process optimization , thereby
   reducing energy consumption and enhancing product quality and economic
   viability . thus , ml demonstrates potential in the food processing field .
   scope and approach : firstly , the advantages and disadvantages of commonly
   used ml algorithms in food processing were introduced to aid researchers in
   selecting the most suitable algorithm . secondly , applications of ml in
   food detection , drying , and fermentation were summarized and analyzed , as
   well as existing challenges and corresponding solutions . in addition ,
   forward looking strategies for ml in the food processing field were proposed
   . key findings and conclusions : ml has made notable progress in food
   processing , covering applications in detection , drying , and fermentation
   , with algorithms ranging from unsupervised / supervised learning to deep
   learning . current studies have shown different limitations , like the
   overfitting risks from small samples , interpretability limitations of
   models , and data acquisition difficulties due to the particularity of food
   processing . to construct high quality ml models , dataset and algorithm
   optimization must be tailored to specific processing . the following
   directions were proposed to promote the future application of ml in the food
   processing field : developing small sample algorithms , integrating
   mechanistic models with ml for physical interpretability , and establishing
   global big data platforms to drive efficient , intelligent , and sustainable
   food processing
DE algorithms; big data; data-driven; mechanistic model; multi-physics;
   optimization
ID data acquisition; data handling; deep learning; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; processed foods; thermal processing ( foods ); data-
   driven; interpretability; machine learning algorithms; machine learning;
   mechanistic models; multi-physics; multiple factors; optimizations; small
   samples; systematic review; optimization

---

UT 1030
AR Canatan M, 2025, FOOD ENG REV, V17, P189, DOI 10.1007/s12393-024-09395-1
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Manufacturing: A Review of Current Work and
   Future Opportunities
AU Canatan M; Alkhulaifi N; Watson N; Boz Z
TC 18
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2025
AB the incorporation of artificial intelligence ( ai ) could deliver a new era
   in food manufacturing , marked by increased operational efficiencies ,
   higher product quality , and better safety standards . this review offers an
   in depth examination of the field s evolution , outlines the leading ai
   methodologies , and investigates their applications in food manufacturing .
   this review begins with an introduction to ai and its historical context
   before classifying the main ai methods used in food manufacturing as machine
   learning , computer vision , robotics , and natural language processing .
   machine learning has emerged as an ai application in many areas of food
   manufacturing due to its ability to learn from data and make predictions .
   computer vision is a popular form of ai and plays an important role in
   visual inspections , ensuring product consistency and detecting defects .
   robotics , in conjunction with ai , has automated a wide range of labour
   intensive tasks , from packaging to palletizing , resulting in significant
   improvements in operational efficiency . natural language processing has
   found applications in customer service and compliance , allowing for more
   efficient interactions and regulatory compliance . ai applications in food
   manufacturing are numerous and diverse and key areas such as ingredient
   sorting , quality assessment , process optimization , and supply chain
   management are highlighted in this review . finally , we present issues that
   the industry is encountering in the implementation of ai , as well as a
   research agenda based on the findings . in depth analysis provided in this
   review including the field s evolution , main ai methods used , and their
   applications in food manufacturing , can provide valuable insights for
   researchers , practitioners , and decisionmakers in applications of ai in
   food manufacturing
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food processing; food manufacturing;
   machine learning
ID smart manufacturing; supply chain management; current; artificial
   intelligence methods; deep learning; field evolution; food manufacturing;
   language processing; machine learning; natural languages; operational
   efficiencies; products quality

---

UT 1031
AR Yanuartanti I, 2025, INT CONF SMART COMPUT IOT MACH LEARN SIML, DOI
   10.1109/SIML65326.2025.11081021
TI Deep Learning Model Comparison for Food Nutrient Prediction Using the
   Nutrition5k Dataset
AU Yanuartanti I; Suciati N; Fatichah C
TC 1
SO INT CONF SMART COMPUT IOT MACH LEARN SIML
PY 2025
AB this study compares the performance of three advanced convolutional neural
   network ( cnn ) architectures inceptionv2 , efficientnetv2b0 , and
   resnet101-in predicting the nutritional content of meals using the
   nutrition5k dataset , which includes detailed information on calories ,
   macronutrients ( protein , fat , carbohydrates ) , and mass . the research
   employs multitask learning with a shared backbone for feature extraction and
   task specific outputs for each nutritional attribute . evaluation metrics
   such as mean absolute error ( mae ) , root mean square error ( rmse ) , and
   r squared ( r2 ) are used to assess model performance . efficientnetv2b0
   consistently outperforms the other models , achieving the lowest mae ( e . g
   . , 0.032 for protein , 0.062 for carbohydrates ) and rmse ( e . g . , 0.048
   for protein , 0.093 for carbohydrates ) , with high r 2 values ( 0.98 ) .
   inceptionv2 offers competitive results , particularly in protein and mass
   prediction , while resnet101 shows limitations in multitask prediction tasks
   , recording higher errors for fat and mass estimation . these findings
   highlight efficientnetv2b0 as the most accurate and adaptable architecture
   for food nutrient prediction , offering insights into the trade offs between
   model complexity and computational efficiency . this research provides
   valuable guidance for developing automated dietary assessment systems ,
   enabling more accurate and efficient nutritional analysis in real world
   applications
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food nutrient prediction;
   multi-task learning; nutrition5k dataset
ID computational efficiency; convolution; deep neural networks; errors;
   forecasting; learning systems; mean square error; nutrients; nutrition;
   convolutional neural network; deep learning; food nutrient prediction;
   learning models; mean absolute error; models comparisons; multi-task
   learning; nutrition5k dataset; performance; root mean square errors;
   economic and social effects

---

UT 1032
AR Xu J/4, 2026, ADV MATER TECHNOL, V11, DOI 10.1002/admt.202501369
TI Flexible Dual-Mode Tactile Sensor for Fine-Grained Food Identification via
   Deep Learning
AU Xu J/4; Cao Z; Chao R; Teng J/1; Guo X/3; Zhao Y/5; Wang X/3; Yuan Y; Chen
   Y/8; Ye X/1
TC 0
SO ADV MATER TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB equipping robots with multimodal tactile capabilities enables them to
   perform complex tasks . however , the development of flexible multimodal
   tactile sensors is often hindered by fabrication challenges and interference
   between integrated subcomponents . in this work , a dual mode tactile sensor
   for food identification is proposed , featuring an ultrathin structure
   composed solely of a flexible substrate and planar interdigitated electrodes
   . by combining impedance and triboelectric sensing under dynamic driving ,
   the sensor captures signals that convey mechanical , surface , and
   compositional characteristics of food , enabling accurate identification .
   building on this sensor , an intelligent food identification system is
   developed that fuses dual mode tactile data with deep learning algorithms .
   the system achieves a high classification accuracy of 99.26 % across 15
   common food items . it also demonstrates robust performance in
   distinguishing 10 types of carrots , covering three varieties and four
   freshness levels , with an accuracy of 94.62 % . in addition , using
   impedance mode data alone , the system accurately identifies 12 types of
   vinasses with varying ingredient ratios , achieving an accuracy of 96.03 % .
   these results highlight the sensor s effectiveness in both general food
   classification and fine grained quality differentiation tasks . 2025 wiley
   vch gmbh .
DE deep learning; flexible dual-mode tactile sensor; food identification;
   impedance sensing; triboelectric sensing
ID learning systems; tactile sensors; triboelectricity; complex task; deep
   learning; dual modes; fine grained; flexible dual-mode tactile sensor; food
   identification; impedance sensing; multi-modal; tactile sensors;
   triboelectric sensing; deep learning

---

UT 1033
AR Lohani Harjani J, 2026, J FOODSERV BUS RES, V29, P320, DOI
   10.1080/15378020.2025.2491861
TI Antecedents of artificial intelligence in the food service industry: a meta-
   analytic review
AU Lohani Harjani J; Batra I
TC 3
SO J FOODSERV BUS RES
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is transforming the foodservice sector by
   addressing challenges like food classification , quality control , and sales
   prediction . this study reviews key factors influencing ai adoption ,
   categorizing them as homogenous ( e . g . , quality , trust , perceived
   usefulness ) or heterogeneous ( e . g . , customer engagement , perceived
   risk ) . it highlights the role of tam and utaut in understanding ai
   acceptance and suggests future research on organizational culture and
   regulation . managerial focus should emphasize trust , ease of use , and
   transparent systems . the study offers practical insights for enhancing ai
   integration in foodservice through user friendly and reliable technological
   approaches
DE artificial intelligence; food service industry; meta analysis; technology

---

UT 1034
AR Mor RS/1, 2025, LOGFORUM, V21, P559, DOI 10.17270/J.LOG.001284
TI EXPLORING THE ROLE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN SUSTAINABLE FOOD PROCESSING
   IN INDIA
AU Mor RS/1; Singh R/1; Malik M; Sarwar D; Pandey M; Singh H
TC 0
SO LOGFORUM
PY 2025
AB background : the indian food industry is undergoing a significant shift
   toward sustainability , driven by emerging technologies such as artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) . this study aims to explore the role of ai in promoting
   sustainable food processing in india , based on data collected from 110
   businesses . methods : three hypotheses were developed and analyzed to
   assess the adoption of ai for sustainability in food processing .
   statistical methods were employed to examine the correlations between ai
   applications and key sustainability indicators . results : the findings
   reveal that ai plays a crucial role in enhancing resource efficiency ,
   minimizing waste , and improving energy management within food processing .
   firms implementing advanced ai driven solutions exhibit a stronger
   commitment to sustainable practices , highlighting the transformative
   potential of ai . notable applications include predictive maintenance ,
   quality assurance , and supply chain optimization all of which collectively
   contribute to operational sustainability . conclusions : the study
   underscores the need for industry stakeholders to address financial
   constraints , workforce skill gaps , and implementation challenges in order
   to fully leverage ai s potential . it contributes to the growing body of
   literature on sustainable food systems by providing empirical evidence and
   practical insights for policymakers and practitioners aiming to advance
   sustainability through ai adoption in food processing . wyzsza szkoa
   logistyki , poznan , polska .
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); digital transformation; food industry;
   sustainability; sustainable food processing

---

UT 1035
AR Cahya L, 2025, PROC IEEE INT SYMP FUTUR TELECOMMUN TECHNOL SOFTT, P269, DOI
   10.1109/SOFTT67007.2025.11212982
TI Consumption Preferences for Nusantara and Non-Nusantara Foods Using Machine
   Learning
AU Cahya L; Ramadan DN; Akbar MD; Mansur DM; Eriyadi M; Pratondo A
TC 1
SO PROC IEEE INT SYMP FUTUR TELECOMMUN TECHNOL SOFTT
PY 2025
AB traditional indonesian cuisine , or masakan nusantara , represents a vital
   aspect of the nation s cultural heritage , yet it is increasingly facing
   challenges from the rising popularity of non indonesian foods that are often
   associated with globalization , modern lifestyles , and urban consumer
   preferences . this study addresses the issue by employing a machine learning
   approach to predict consumption preferences between traditional nusantara
   and non nusantara cuisines , with the aim of providing insights that can
   support both cultural preservation and practical strategies in the food
   sector . using data collected from a structured survey of 238 respondents
   across different regions in indonesia 127 of whom preferred nusantara food
   and 111 who favored non nusantara options the research applies the random
   forest algorithm , chosen for its reliability and interpretability in
   classification tasks . the analysis reveals that food availability , types
   of cuisine frequently consumed , and monthly income emerge as the most
   significant variables influencing food preferences , reflecting the combined
   impact of socioeconomic conditions and lifestyle habits on culinary choices
   . the model achieved an accuracy of 95 % , demonstrating strong predictive
   performance and underscoring the value of data driven approaches in
   understanding consumer behavior . beyond technical outcomes , the findings
   have broader implications for policies and initiatives to preserve indonesia
   s culinary traditions by ensuring accessibility and cultural relevance amid
   globalization . stakeholders from local businesses to policymakers can use
   these insights to design strategies that balance modern demands with
   cultural preservation , keeping traditional indonesian cuisine a vital part
   of national identity in a changing food landscape
DE consumption preferences; food classification; machine learning; nusantara
   food; random forest
ID consumer behavior; economics; food chemistry; food industry; food
   ingredients; food preservation; historic preservation; information
   management; machine learning; random forests; consumers preferences;
   consumption preference; cultural heritages; cultural preservation; food
   classification; globalization; indonesia; machine learning; nusantarum food;
   random forests; learning systems

---

UT 1036
AR Jain R/1, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V2, P96
TI Machine Learning based Diet Recommendation System
AU Jain R/1; Garg D; Singh A/4; Sharma S/5; Singh D
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB recent studies have shown that food recommendation systems can contribute
   well enough in the field of food and nutrition . such systems are based on
   machine learning models , offer personalized diet and food recommendations
   depending on a person s dietary preferences , health needs and fitness goals
   . this review talks about a diet recommendation system that produces custom
   diet plans based on age , gender , height , weight , health conditions ,
   food preferences and specific nutritional needs . for data collection we
   have used usda and grocery datasets . collaborative and content based
   filtering methods are used for building recommendation models . algorithms
   like decision trees and random forest are used for model training . the
   recommends a diet plan for the day based on user inputs . this application
   will help users in planning their everyday meals which may vary due to food
   choices , nutritional requirements and health conditions
DE classification; data preprocessing; datasets; filtering; machine learning;
   recommendation system
ID classification ( of information ); decision trees; forestry; learning
   systems; machine learning; nutrition; random forests; data collection; data
   preprocessing; dataset; diet plan; food preference; health condition;
   machine learning models; machine learning; on-machines; plan-based;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1037
AR Rashwan AK, 2026, BIORESOUR TECHNOL, V449, DOI
   10.1016/j.biortech.2026.134399
TI Valorization of coffee processing by-products for circular economy:
   Environmental, food, pharmaceutical applications, and artificial
   intelligence-based optimization approaches
AU Rashwan AK; Eltohamy KM; Mustafa AM; El-Shiekh RA; El-Dessouki AM; Abo-
   Elghiet F; Mohamed AK; Osman AI; Ding K; Chen W
TC 0
SO BIORESOUR TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB the global coffee industry generates over 10 million metric tons of coffee
   processing by products every year ( 0.9 kg of waste , from cherry to cup ,
   per 1 kg of coffee cherries harvested ) , posing a significant waste
   management challenge . this review presents a transdisciplinary synthesis on
   transferring coffee processing by products ( cpbs ) from a substantial waste
   burden into a valuable resource across the environmental , food , and
   pharmaceutical sectors to promote sustainable circular economy principles .
   cpbs demonstrate significant potential for environmental applications in six
   core areas : carbon dioxide capture , activated carbon production ,
   wastewater treatment , biofuel production , natural dyes production , and
   agricultural soil remediation . in food applications , cpbs can be
   effectively used as functional ingredients in gluten free products , natural
   antioxidants , and dietary fiber sources ( e . g . , coffee silverskin
   contains up to 77 % fiber ) . pharmaceutical applications utilize their
   bioactive compounds , including melanoidins ( 17.023.0 g .100 g1 , dry
   weight basis ) , chlorogenic acids ( 1 % 3 % , on a dry basis ) , and
   caffeine ( 1 % 6 % , on a dry basis ) , for antioxidant , antimicrobial ,
   and anti inflammatory activities . the integration of artificial
   intelligence offers unprecedented opportunities to optimize the valorization
   efficiency of cpbs by enhancing their characterization , extraction
   processes , and supply chain management . however , significant research
   gaps remain regarding standardized protocols , large scale cpbs processing
   technologies , and their economic viability assessments , which should be
   considered in future research to improve the productivity and efficiency of
   cpbs applications . overall , the strategic valorization of cpbs through
   circular economy principles and advanced technologies offers a
   transformative pathway toward a sustainable and resilient global coffee
   industry
DE bioactive compounds; circular economy; coffee by-products; machine learning;
   waste management
ID antioxidants; artificial intelligence; coffee; waste management;
   antioxidants; coffee; food waste; supply chain management; supply chains;
   sustainable development; activated carbon; antioxidant; caffeine; carbon
   dioxide; chlorogenic acid; gluten; dry [; bioactive compounds; circular
   economy; coffee by-product; coffee cherries; coffee processing; machine
   learning; optimization approach; pharmaceutical applications; valorisation;
   activated carbon; agricultural soil; artificial intelligence; by-product;
   chemical compound; circular economy; coffee; extraction method; machine
   learning; valorization; waste management; wastewater treatment;
   antiinflammatory activity; antimicrobial activity; artificial intelligence;
   biofuel production; cherry; coffee; data mining; dietary fiber; dry weight;
   economic aspect; electric potential; food; machine learning; review; soil
   remediation; synthesis; valorization; waste management; waste water
   management; chemistry; procedures; waste management; waste management

---

UT 1038
AR Raja DN, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF, P219, DOI
   10.1201/9781032633602-11
TI Artificial Intelligence for Improving Food Quality
AU Raja DN; Giri KJ; Mehra F; Iqra I
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF
PY 2025
AB the chapter guides us on a comprehensive journey as it meticulously
   dissecting the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) within the
   intricate framework of the food industry , with the primary goal of
   enhancing food quality . at its onset , an introduction provides a summary
   of the book s contents and sets the stage for the significant changes
   brought about by emerging ai technology . . in this study , machine learning
   , deep learning , computer vision , and speech technology are not only
   merely buzzwords but also scrutinized for their tangible contributions
   toward the augmentation of food quality standards . diving deeper , this
   chapter explores a labyrinth of facets , each intricately woven into the
   fabric of food production and distribution . from the meticulous
   organization of products to the innovative solutions in packaging , from
   ensuring seamless coordination across sprawling supply chains to upholding
   stringent hygienic standards , and from leveraging customer preferences
   through advanced engines to elevating the very benchmarks of food standards
   , ai emerges as the silent orchestrator behind the scenes , reshaping every
   aspect of the industry . yet , amid the celebration of technological prowess
   , the chapter remains grounded in reality , candidly acknowledging the
   existing challenges that accompany the pursuit of quality assessment and
   management in the realm of food . however , rather than dwelling on
   obstacles , the narrative propels forward , venturing into the realm of
   speculative futurism . in this study , the integration of voice technology
   with ai emerges as a tantalizing prospect , promising further advancements
   in the perpetual quest for superior food quality standards

---

UT 1039
AR Gómez AP, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2553 CCIS, P316, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-97910-1_25
TI Optimizing Food Traceability Through QR, NFC, IoT Technologies, and
   Artificial Intelligence to Enhance Food Safety and Reduce Waste
AU Gómez AP; del Carmen Vela Rosas S; Ramos MO; Gonzalez JIV
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB limited traceability in the food supply chain compromises safety , quality ,
   and operational efficiency , in addition to increasing waste and greenhouse
   gas emissions . this study presents a software as a service ( saas )
   technological solution designed to optimize food traceability and logistics
   in mexico s food bank network . the platform is based on quick response ( qr
   ) , near field communication ( nfc ) , and internet of things ( iot )
   technologies , enabling realtime monitoring of food origin , transportation
   , status , and delivery by controlling critical variables such as
   temperature and humidity . a key component of the system is the use of
   decision tree algorithms , which analyze data collected by iot sensors to
   support decision making in the logistics chain . these algorithms structure
   nodes that represent specific conditions and generate decision paths that
   trigger automated actions , sending alerts or reassigning distribution
   routes . thanks to their ability to manage large volumes of data and their
   transparent interpretation , decision trees allow for predicting and
   proactively responding to risk events , improving efficiency and reducing
   losses . to improve accuracy and mitigate model bias , representative data
   from all logistics stages were used , along with balanced sampling and cross
   validation techniques . the results show a 20 % to 40 % improvement in the
   proportion of products that remain in optimal condition until their final
   destination , a 5 % to 2 % reduction in returns due to moisture , and a 10 %
   increase in operational efficiency . the solution was developed and
   implemented over six months in a realworld food distribution environment ,
   demonstrating its potential to transform traceability and decision making in
   food logistics
DE decision tree; iot sustainability; monitoring; safety; traceability
ID chains; food safety; food supply; food waste; forestry; greenhouse gasses;
   internet of things; supply chains; sustainable development; decisions
   makings; food logistics; food traceabilitys; food safety; internet of thing
   sustainability; internet of things technologies; near-field communication;
   operational efficiencies; quick response; traceability; accident prevention;
   decision trees

---

UT 1040
AR Rajagopal R, 2025, IEEE INT STUD CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT SCI SCEECS, DOI
   10.1109/SCEECS64059.2025.10941059
TI Comparative Study of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Models for Food
   Waste Detection Using Image Processing
AU Rajagopal R; Chaithanya K; Sonth A; Kallappagoudar PB; Mohammadishaq Nadaf
   M; Ananda Theertha H
TC 0
SO IEEE INT STUD CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT SCI SCEECS
PY 2025
AB for the purpose of reducing financial losses and environmental impacts ,
   food waste detection is essential . inorder to detect food waste using image
   processing , this study investigates the efficiency of several machine
   learning algorithms , including convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , k
   nearest neighbors ( knn ) , random forest , and inception model ( iv3 ) . a
   set of images of food are then processed . before each algorithm is used for
   classification , pre processing methods like segmentation and feature
   extraction are used
DE cnn ( convolution neural network ); food classification; iv3 ( inception
   models; knn ( k nearest neighbor ); rf ( random forest )
ID convolutional neural networks; random forests; convolution neural network;
   food classification; food waste; images processing; iv3 ( inception model;
   k-near-neighbor; nearest-neighbour; random forest; random forests; k-nearest
   neighbors

---

UT 1041
AR Yuan J, 2026, J FUTUR FOODS, V6, P533, DOI 10.1016/j.jfutfo.2025.01.001
TI A Review of Deep Learning Models for Food Flavor Data Analysis
AU Yuan J; Wu Q; Zhou J/1; Yu S/2; Xin X; Liu J/3; Cui X/1
TC 7
SO J FUTUR FOODS
PY 2026
AB deep learning , a core branch of artificial intelligence , has shown great
   potential in food flavor analysis , prediction and optimization with its
   powerful data processing and pattern recognition capabilities . this article
   reviews deep learning applications in food flavor , discussing various deep
   learning algorithms and models including artificial neural network ,
   convolutional neural network , recurrent neural network , autoencoder ,
   graph neural network and generative adversarial network . besides , the
   latest progress and development trends of deep learning are discussed in
   this field . compared with traditional flavor analysis methods , deep
   learning methods have obvious advantages and have important application
   prospects in the field of food flavor . with the continuous advancement of
   technology in the future , it is expected that more deep learning
   applications will appear in the food industry
DE convolutional neural network; flavor perception; multi-modal deep learning;
   recurrent neural network
ID artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; autoencoder;
   convolutional neural network; data analysis; data processing; deep learning;
   flavor; food industry; generative adversarial network; graph neural network;
   human; learning algorithm; pattern recognition; pharmacology; prediction;
   recurrent neural network; review; therapy

---

UT 1042
AR Al-Qablan HZ, 2026, AIP CONF PROC, V3406, DOI 10.1063/5.0318420
TI Employing artificial intelligence to prevent food wasting and enhance
   sustainable development
AU Al-Qablan HZ; Zuriqat EAZ; Zabian A
TC 0
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2026
AB food waste is a significant issue in restaurants , contributing to both
   environmental and financial concerns . this study aims to address the
   problem of food waste in restaurants by using intelligent systems to bring
   more benefits to businesses . our model s objective is to predict the amount
   of food wasted based on key factors such as food quality , number of guests
   , occasion type , venue size , and meal timing ( e . g . , breakfast , lunch
   , dinner ) . by minimizing the amount of wasted food , the model helps
   reduce costs for both restaurants and individuals . using a machine learning
   algorithm , we predict the quantity of food wasted for various events ,
   given these parameters . the results show that our model effectively
   predicates the appropriate quantity of food , contributing to significant
   cost savings and reducing food waste
DE artificial intelligence; food management; food wasting; sustainable
   development

---

UT 1043
AR Xiong S, 2026, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V174, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2026.105824
TI Mechanism-driven artificial intelligence for food cold-chain control and
   governance
AU Xiong S; Zhu Z/2; Sun D-W/1
TC 0
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB background : food cold chains are critical infrastructures for safeguarding
   perishable foods , yet prevailing management strategies remain largely rule
   based , relying on sparse environmental monitoring , conservative safety
   margins and endpoint inspection . such approaches insufficiently capture
   product level micro environment variability and deterioration kinetics ,
   resulting in recurrent temperature abuse , avoidable food loss , excessive
   energy consumption and elevated greenhouse gas emissions . scope and
   approach : this review advances a mechanism driven perspective on artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) in food cold chain systems . rather than treating ai as
   a generic optimization tool , we examine how near product , multimodal
   sensing can be coupled with kinetics informed and physics aware models to
   infer remaining shelf life , safety margins and quality risk in real time .
   we synthesize evidence on how these mechanism linked outputs inform dynamic
   process control , quality based logistics allocation , first expiredfirst
   out implementation and energy aware operation . particular emphasis is
   placed on model interpretability , uncertainty quantification , external
   validation and clearly defined applicability domains as prerequisites for
   trustworthy deployment . key findings and conclusions : across reported
   studies , ai demonstrates tangible value only when tightly anchored to
   measurable micro environments and explicit deterioration mechanisms , and
   when embedded within governed decision loops aligned with formal food safety
   management systems . we distill core design principles for mechanism driven
   cold chain intelligence : robust sensing and calibration . physics informed
   feature construction . uncertainty aware modeling . transparent validation
   across products and scenarios . and controlled transferability . under these
   conditions , ai enabled systems can transition cold chains from static
   compliance frameworks to dynamic , risk based governance structures , with
   realistic potential to reduce avoidable losses , optimize energy demand and
   lower emissions while enhancing transparency and accountability in cold
   chain performance
DE artificial intelligence; food cold chain; near-product sensing; supervisory
   control; sustainability
ID chains; decision making; deterioration; energy utilization; environmental
   management; food safety; greenhouse gasses; power management; process
   control; safety engineering; cold chain; deterioration kinetics;
   environmental monitoring; food cold chains; management strategies;
   microenvironments; near-product sensing; rule based; safety margin;
   supervisory control; sustainable development

---

UT 1044
AR Deng W, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V505, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2026.147961
TI Advances and challenges in multidimensional architectural applications of
   1D/2D/3D convolutional neural networks in food quality assessment
AU Deng W; Qin Q; Zhao J/1; Yu Y/1; Huang Y/4; Dong H/1; Cao F; Li Z/3
TC 5
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) have attracted extensive attention in
   food quality analysis , owing to their outstanding ability to process multi
   dimensional food quality data . this review summarizes the research progress
   and potential development trends of 1d cnns , 2d cnns , and 3d cnns in food
   quality evaluation , with a specific focus on their applications in three
   key data types : spectral data , image data , and spectral spatial fused
   information . nevertheless , the application of cnns in food quality
   analysis still faces several persistent challenges , such as issues related
   to data quality , high model complexity coupled with poor interpretability ,
   substantial computational costs , and inadequate model generalization . this
   review can she would new insights for promoting the wider adoption of cnns
   in the food industry , and further drive the development of more intelligent
   and sustainable food quality perception systems
DE convolutional neural networks; data fusion; food quality; generalization;
   interpretability; spectral-spatial fused information
ID convolutional neural networks; food analysis; food quality; neural networks
   computer; convolutional neural networks; data quality; quality control;
   convolutional neural network; development trends; food quality; food quality
   analysis; generalization; interpretability; multi-dimensional; quality
   assessment; quality data; spectral-spatial fused information; convolutional
   neural network; data quality; electric potential; food industry; food
   quality; human; pharmaceutics; quality control; review; artificial neural
   network; convolutional neural network; food analysis; procedures;
   convolution

---

UT 1045
AR Li Y/7, 2026, J HYDROL, V677, DOI 10.1016/j.jhydrol.2026.135763
TI A novel hybrid modeling-based artificial intelligence agent for water-food-
   ecology-environment-economy system trade-offs
AU Li Y/7; Chen Z; Hu M/3; Li X/6; Han Y/1; Ren D; Xu X/2; Xiong Y; Huang Q;
   Huang G
TC 0
SO J HYDROL
PY 2026
AB the mismanagement of irrigation , fertilization , and cropping systems
   intensifies conflicts within the water food ecology environment economy (
   wfeee ) system . to address this challenge , we developed a novel artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) agent by integrating agro hydrological model ( ahc ) ,
   machine learning algorithm , multi criteria decision making ( mcdm ) method
   , and large language model ( llm ) for wfeee system trade offs , within an
   ai development platform . the ai agent can automatically optimize irrigation
   , fertilization , and crop planting structures by balancing irrigation water
   productivity ( iwp ) , crop yield , ecosystem service value ( esv ) ,
   nitrogen pollution load ( npl ) , and economic benefit ( eb ) . applied to
   the wuliangsuhai lake watershed of north china under 90 combined irrigation
   , nitrogen application and hydrological year scenarios , along with 8
   planting structure scenarios , the ai agent demonstrated significant
   improvements in sustainability of the wfeee system by strategically reducing
   irrigation and nitrogen inputs while optimizing wheat to maize ratio .
   compared to conventional practices , the ai driven solution increased iwp by
   65 % , reduced npl by 78 % and negative esv by 20 % , while limiting yield
   and eb losses below 10 % and 2 % , respectively . as a result , the wfeee
   system s sustainability index improved by 145 % . notably , the ai agent
   achieved a 5.7-to 11.5-fold increase in decision making efficiency over
   traditional externally linked approaches , and a 2.6-to 3.7-fold higher
   stability of decision outcomes over conventional mcdm based singlelayer
   decision . these improvements stem from the ai agent automating previously
   manual tasks ( including model execution , decision indicator calculation ,
   data format conversion and transmission ) and incorporating an llm based
   second layer decision . this study underscores the capability of ai agent to
   support intelligent management in complex agricultural systems , providing a
   practical pathway for future advancements . 2026 elsevier b.v . all rights
   are reserved , including those for text and data mining , ai training , and
   similar technologies .
DE artificial intelligence; decision making efficiency; hybrid modeling; multi-
   objective synergistic regulation; sustainable agricultural management
ID agricultural machinery; agricultural pollution; behavioral research; crops;
   data mining; decision making; ecosystems; forestry; grain ( agricultural
   product ); irrigation; learning systems; nitrogen; agricultural management;
   artificial intelligence agent; decisions makings; decision making
   efficiency; hybrid model; model-based opc; multi-objective; multi-objective
   synergistic regulation; sustainable agricultural; sustainable agricultural
   management; economic and social effects

---

UT 1046
AR Iqra I, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF, P56, DOI
   10.1201/9781032633602-3
TI Role of Machine Learning and Computer Vision in the Agri-Food Industry
AU Iqra I; Giri KJ; Wani BA; Raja DN; Mehraj F
TC 7
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF
PY 2025
AB the agri food industry , a cornerstone of human existence and economic well
   being , faces unprecedented challenges and opportunities in the 21st century
   . this chapter explores the profound influence of machine learning ( cl )
   and computer vision ( cv ) technologies in addressing the critical demands
   of the agriculture and food sectors . highlighting the industry s global
   significance , we emphasize its pivotal role in safeguarding food supplies ,
   fostering economic development , and addressing concerns related to
   nutrition , healthcare , and ecological sustainability . the pressures of a
   growing global population , resource constraints , and climate change
   necessitate innovative technological advancements in agriculture . ml and cv
   emerge as key drivers of this transformation , enabling evidence based
   decision making , precision agriculture , and continuous monitoring , thus
   ushering in an era of unmatched efficiency and productivity . through
   examples from precision agriculture , crop management , and food quality
   assurance , this chapter demonstrates how these technologies can
   revolutionize farming practices , reduce crop related risks , and enhance
   food safety standards . offering valuable insights into the future of the
   agri food industry , this chapter envisions a world where artificial
   intelligence , ml , and cv play crucial roles in creating a sustainable and
   thriving global food ecosystem . it serves as a vital resource for scholars
   , practitioners , and policymakers navigating the evolving landscape of
   technology infused agriculture , shedding light on the path toward a more
   robust , efficient , and sustainable agri food sector

---

UT 1047
AR Mei S/1, 2025, PEST MANAG SCI, V81, P7019, DOI 10.1002/ps.70053
TI Quantifying tolerances or maximum residue limits of pesticide in food
   commodities via deep neural networks
AU Mei S/1
TC 2
SO PEST MANAG SCI
PY 2025
AB background : quantifying tolerances or legal maximum residue limits ( mrls )
   of pesticide in / on food commodities is of significance to enforce the
   surveillance of food safety / quality and good agricultural practices ( gap
   ) . current in silico models mostly focus on estimating field residue levels
   , for example via in situ or field maximum residue levels ( in situ mrls ) ,
   retention time and dissipation half life . in silico modeling of residue
   tolerances involves more complicated processes ( e . g . in situ gap mrls
   estimation , daily dietary assessment and toxicological test ) , and
   receives little attention to the best of our knowledge . results : in this
   work , based on the major considerations that tolerances settings use the
   maximum permissible intake ( mpi ) as toxicological risk index to
   accommodate the in situ mrls estimated via supervised field trials under gap
   , we conduct machine learning modeling of residue tolerances from the
   perspective of quantitative structureactivity relationships ( qsar ) .
   through hierarchical clustering , we find that ( 1 ) structurally similar
   residues exhibit similar or transferable tolerances / mrls profiles ( termed
   as between residues mrls transferability ) . and ( 2 ) close food species
   also exhibit similar or transferable tolerance / mrls profiles ( termed as
   between foods mrls transferability ) . these findings provide a modeling
   basis for us to quantify the legal mrls of a pesticide on untested food
   species from a mechanistic point of view . the available residue tolerance
   measurements of 438 pesticides in 128 food commodities are aggregated to
   train a global qsar based deep neural network ( dnn ) regression model . the
   feature space is spanned by a chemical subspace represented with morgan
   similarity spectra and a food subspace encoded with one hot vector . the
   results of 5-fold stratified cross validation show that dnns achieve overall
   0.81 r2 , significantly outperforming the conventional machine learning
   models , such as extreme gradient boosting ( xgboost ) , random forest ( rf
   ) and support vector regression ( svr ) . computational results also show
   that the strategy of one model for one food species is not feasible for
   legal mrls quantification , in which the majority of food commodities
   achieve negative r2 . as a global model , the proposed dnn regression model
   encouragingly achieves 0.6 r2 for > 72.66 % of food commodities . conclusion
   : between residues and between foods mrls transferability are proved to
   support the qsar based modeling of residue tolerances in / on food
   commodities . the dnn , feature engineered via morgan similarity spectra and
   food one hot vector , proves to be effective in setting residue tolerances .
   when considering gap and field conditions , the proposed modeling strategy
   can be extended to or incorporate in situ field mrls estimation . 2025
   society of chemical industry . 2025 society of chemical industry .
DE deep neural networks; food safety control; food toxicology; maximum residue
   limits; pesticide ( eco ) toxicology; qsar modeling
ID deep learning; food contamination; food safety; neural networks computer;
   pesticide residues; quantitative structure-activity relationship; pesticide
   residue; artificial neural network; cluster analysis; commodity; food
   safety; machine learning; pesticide; risk assessment; toxicology; artificial
   neural network; deep learning; food contamination; food safety; quantitative
   structure-activity relation

---

UT 1048
AR Wicaksono T, 2026, CLEAN RESPONSIBLE CONSUM, V22, DOI
   10.1016/j.clrc.2026.100450
TI Carbon-conscious gamification strategies for food delivery platforms: A
   machine learning–enhanced QFD model
AU Wicaksono T; Supriadi O; Cakranegara PA; Zahirah KF; Illés CB
TC 0
SO CLEAN RESPONSIBLE CONSUM
PY 2026
AB reducing the carbon footprint of food delivery is becoming a strategic
   priority as platform based consumption reshapes urban food systems .
   meanwhile , gamification is widely promoted as a behavioral tool to
   encourage users to make more sustainable choices , yet its effectiveness
   varies across contexts . this study integrates carbon conscious design and
   gamification strategy into a structured framework for food service platforms
   , comparing customer priorities in hungary and indonesia . survey data are
   analyzed using random forest to estimate importance weights for customer
   needs for carbon conscious gamified ordering ( cns cco ) , which are then
   translated into carbon conscious gamification design strategies ( cg strat )
   through quality function deployment and the house of quality matrix . the
   result show that the hungarian dataset highlights relatedness , competence ,
   autonomy , and enjoyment as the priority cns cco . accordingly , low carbon
   community leaderboard , carbon conscious peer interaction feature , carbon
   conscious progress tracker , public carbon conscious achievement profile ,
   and custom carbon conscious goal setting emerge as priority cg strat .
   hungarian users value structure and visible progress . the indonesian
   dataset shows a different pattern . enjoyment and self presentation stand
   out alongside relatedness and autonomy as the priority cns cco . low carbon
   community leaderboard , randomized rewards for low carbon actions ,
   shareable carbon conscious achievement certificate , carbon conscious
   narrative animation , and public carbon conscious achievement profile emerge
   as priority cg strat . emotional appeal and social visibility weigh more
   than system control . gamification strategies must reflect core customer
   needs
DE e-commerce; gamification; machine learning; service delivery; sustainability

---

UT 1049
AR Inoue N, 2025, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V73, P22425, DOI 10.1021/acs.jafc.5c06318
TI Human Microbiome-Based Prediction of Health Effects of Foods via Machine
   Learning
AU Inoue N; Shibata T; Sawada R; Yamanishi Y
TC 0
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB food absorption is dependent on the activities of internal microorganisms .
   when exploring food functionality , considering the food compounds and their
   metabolites produced by microbial metabolism is crucial . in this study , we
   developed a machine learning method to predict food functionalities using
   microorganism and metabolic data . the prediction was performed on the
   chemical properties of 70,478 constituent compounds and 24,255 metabolites
   and their interactions with target proteins in disease related pathways .
   this identified potential functional associations between 941 foods and 83
   diseases , providing insights into the mechanisms involved , particularly
   those related to microorganisms . the effects of microorganism mediated
   foods on diseases can be categorized based on food type . for example , the
   microorganisms associated with diseases within each food category indicated
   the potential involvement of the bacteroidetes phylum in dyslipidemia and
   the firmicutes phylum in parkinson s disease . this method could aid in
   identifying disease associated microorganisms , identifying prebiotic foods
   , and highlighting the potential of food interventions in the preventive
   medicine field . furthermore , this approach is expected to be useful for
   elucidating novel mechanisms of fooddisease interactions mediated by
   microbial metabolites . 2025 american chemical society
DE food compounds; machine learning; metabolites; microbiome; proteins
ID bacteria; gastrointestinal microbiome; humans; machine learning; microbiota;
   biomolecules; food chemistry; food microbiology; functional food; learning
   systems; machine learning; metabolism; microorganisms; food compound; health
   effects; human microbiome; machine learning methods; machine learning;
   metabolic data; microbial metabolism; microbiome; property; target proteins;
   bacterium; classification; genetics; human; intestine flora; isolation and
   purification; machine learning; metabolism; microflora; metabolites

---

UT 1050
AR Mala K, 2025, PROC INT CONF SUSTAIN COMMUN NETWORKS APPL ICSCN, P1495, DOI
   10.1109/ICSCN67106.2025.11308634
TI Food Calorie Estimation using Machine Learning Techniques
AU Mala K; Rakshitha K; Keerthana T; Amrutha G; Varshini PN; Muktha HM
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF SUSTAIN COMMUN NETWORKS APPL ICSCN
PY 2025
AB in contemporary society , maintaining nutritional awareness has become
   increasingly critical yet challenging due to busy lifestyles . this research
   presents a food calorie estimator utilizing artificial intelligence and
   machine learning techniques for automated dietary tracking through image
   recognition . the system employs dual functionality : ai driven image
   recognition for automatic food identification from uploaded or camera
   captured images , and manual food selection from a comprehensive database .
   the platform provides detailed macronutrient breakdowns carbohydrates ,
   proteins , and fats visualized through intuitive progress bars and
   calculates caloric content based on portion quantities . real time feedback
   mechanisms , responsive design architecture , and user friendly interfaces
   bridge the gap between personal health management and advanced technology .
   by leveraging nutritional databases and ai based food identification , users
   can efficiently and accurately monitor dietary consumption . this solution
   transcends traditional calculation tools , functioning as a digital
   companion promoting mindful eating practices and supporting healthy
   lifestyle choices through intelligent data processing and user centric
   design .
DE calorie estimation; computer vision; food recognition; image processing;
   machine learning; nutritional analysis
ID automatic identification; image recognition; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; machine learning; nutrition; artificial intelligence learning;
   caloric content; calorie estimations; camera-captured images; content-based;
   food recognition; images processing; machine learning techniques; machine
   learning; nutritional analyze; computer vision

---

UT 1051
AR Gradl L, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P62831, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3558091
TI Industrial Maturity of Machine Learning Solutions Within the Food Industry
AU Gradl L; Reis L; Buettner R
TC 0
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB ensuring food security is a crucial challenge becoming increasingly complex
   for society on a global level . machine learning technology can help to
   overcome this challenge , however its successful deployment in practice is a
   mandatory prerequisite and currently achieved only to a limited extent .
   therefore , this systematic literature review aims at determining the
   current state of industrial maturity of machine learning based approaches in
   the context of food industry , evaluating their readiness for operational
   use and deployment . an initial framework for assessment of industrial
   technology readiness consisting of six technical and human and process
   related dimensions is developed . existing solutions are categorized
   according to the addressed process step within the food value chain and the
   covered dimension of the maturity framework . as the findings demonstrate ,
   the industrial maturity degree is mainly located in the lower to middle
   range . regarding all considered dimensions and phases within the food value
   chain , however particularly regarding the dimensions integrability and
   usability as well as the phase packaging and logistics , huge progress is
   required to achieve an overall high or very high industrial maturity degree
   . thus , this work highlights the importance of a holistic perspective
   realized e . g . by cooperation between research and industry in order to
   achieve application ready machine learning models with high levels of
   industrial maturity
DE assessment framework; food value chain; machine learning applications;
   maturity degree; maturity dimensions
ID food ingredients; food security; assessment framework; food industries; food
   security; food value chain; machine learning applications; machine learning
   technology; machine learning; maturity degrees; maturity dimension; value
   chains; food industry

---

UT 1052
AR Kenger EB, 2025, IRAN J PUBLIC HEAL, V54, P1243, DOI
   10.18502/ijph.v54i6.18902
TI Artificial Intelligence-Generated Diet Plans for Hypertension and
   Dyslipidemia: Adherence and Nutritional Insights
AU Kenger EB; Karahan TÖ
TC 5
SO IRAN J PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2025
AB background : we evaluated diet plans generated by chatgpt for hypertension
   and dyslipidaemia . methods : in october 2024 , chatgpt was used to generate
   meal plans for 24 simulated patients with different cardiovascular health
   problems . data were used from men ( n=12 ) and women ( n=12 ) , aged 56 yr
   , with mean heights of 176 cm and 161 cm respectively . weight categories
   were based on bmi : normal , overweight , and obese , using weights of 56 ,
   71 , and 84 kg for women and 67 , 85 , and 101 kg for men . four health
   conditions were assessed : hypertension stages 1 and 2 ( systolic bp 130-139
   mm hg and 140 mm hg . diastolic bp 80-89 mm hg and 90 mm hg ) , and elevated
   ldl levels ( 130 mg / dl and 160 mg / dl ) . menus were evaluated for
   adherence to mediterranean and dash diets , including recommendations .
   results : adherence to the mediterranean and dash diets was low across all
   groups , with median scores below 9 and 4.5 , respectively . common
   recommendations included weight loss , physical activity , reduced salt
   intake , stress management , and omega 3s for both hypertension and ldl
   reduction . plant sterols / stanols were suggested only for ldl . no advice
   was given on smoking or alcohol use . nutrient content did not differ
   significantly between hypertension and ldl menus ( p > 0.05 ) . conclusion :
   this pioneering study found that ai generated dietary models had low
   adherence to dash and mediterranean diets , though most recommendations were
   generally appropriate . since the prompts only requested basic nutrition
   plans , future research should use more specific , personalized prompts to
   better assess ai s role in managing chronic diseases . 2025 kenger et al .
   published by tehran university of medical sciences .
DE artificial intelligence; dyslipidaemia; hypertension; nutrition

---

UT 1053
AR Mansour F, 2026, COMPUT CHEM ENG, V206, DOI
   10.1016/j.compchemeng.2025.109526
TI Harnessing machine learning for water energy food nexus sustainability:
   developing a surrogate to multi-objective optimization
AU Mansour F; Yehya M; Ayoub A; Al-Hindi M
TC 0
SO COMPUT CHEM ENG
PY 2026
AB integrated management of water , energy , and food resources is critical for
   achieving sustainability under rising environmental and demographic
   pressures , yet existing approaches either lack computational efficiency for
   real time decision support or fail to capture the full complexity of
   sectoral interdependencies . this study presents a water energy food nexus
   machine learning based surrogate model ( wefn mlm ) . the key innovation
   lies in training a random forest algorithm on comprehensive multi objective
   optimization outputs from thousands of diverse scenarios , enabling the
   model to learn complex nonlinear interdependencies and resource trade offs
   without requiring explicit mathematical formulation of system relationships
   . a high resolution multi objective optimization wefn model ( moo wefn ) is
   used to generate the training dataset , incorporating constraints for
   resource availability , caloric requirements , and environmental thresholds
   . the trained model demonstrates high predictive accuracy , with most output
   variables achieving r2 values above 0.90 and cosine similarity scores near
   1.0. normalized absolute error analysis reveals strong performance
   consistency across system level metrics , with select deviations in sector
   specific outputs , particularly those highly sensitive to scenario dynamics
   or underrepresented in the training space . compared to traditional
   optimization , the surrogate model achieves up to a 300,000-fold reduction
   in computation time . the surrogate model is validated using a randomly
   generated test set of scenarios that enables direct comparison between
   surrogate predictions and optimization results . the results highlight the
   model s effectiveness for high resolution nexus analysis and scenario
   exploration , while also acknowledging trade offs between speed and
   precision . findings underscore the importance of diverse training scenarios
   , careful application boundaries , and integration with policy processes to
   support resilient resource planning
DE machine learning; multi-objective optimization; resource management; water
   energy food nexus
ID commerce; computational efficiency; decision making; environmental
   management; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine learning; multi-
   objective optimization; resource allocation; sustainable development; high
   resolution; integrated management; machine learning; multi-objectives
   optimization; optimizations; resource management; surrogate modeling; trade
   off; water energy; water energy food nexus; economic and social effects

---

UT 1054
AR Lu D, 2025, ENV INT, V199, DOI 10.1016/j.envint.2025.109458
TI Assessment of POPs in foods from western China: Machine learning insights
   into risk and contamination drivers
AU Lu D; Lin Y; Le S; Chen Y/10; Feng C; Qian Z/1; Wang G; Li J; Xiao P
TC 3
SO ENV INT
PY 2025
AB persistent organic pollutants ( pops ) , including pcdd / fs , pcbs , and
   pbdes , are major environmental and food safety concerns due to their
   bioaccumulative and toxic properties . however , comprehensive research on
   the concentrations and influencing factors of pops across different food
   types and regions , particularly in underdeveloped regions of western china
   , remains scarce . this study conducted a comprehensive assessment of pops
   contamination in six food types ( pig liver , pork , freshwater fish ,
   marine fish , beef , and eggs ) from western china by integrating
   environmental , geographical , socio economic data , and food pop
   concentrations with machine learning and multivariate analyzes to evaluate
   distribution patterns , key influencing factors , and associated health
   risks . the results showed distinct contamination patterns across food types
   and regions . among all food , pig liver exhibited the highest levels of
   pcdd / fs , while marine fish showed elevated pbdes and ndl pcbs ,
   highlighting the influence of organ specific bioaccumulation and global
   oceanic pollution . freshwater fish displayed higher pcdd / fs due to
   localized agricultural and industrial pollution . regional differences were
   most pronounced in pork , with higher contamination in yunnan and sichuan ,
   driven by industrial emissions , biomass burning , and geographical factors
   . regression models , particularly random forest and shap analyzes ,
   identified food type , latitude , gdp , and climatic conditions as key
   predictors of pop variability . risk assessments indicated that dietary
   exposure to pops from high consumption foods remained within safety
   thresholds , posing no significant health risks to the general population .
   this study highlights the utility of advanced analytical tools in
   understanding contamination dynamics and emphasizes the need for systematic
   monitoring , targeted interventions , and enhanced food safety regulations ,
   particularly in western china
DE food safety; machine learning; polybrominated diphenyl ethers ( pbdes );
   polychlorinated biphenyls ( pcbs ); polychlorodibenzo-p-dioxin/furans (
   pcdd/fs ); risk assessment
ID animals; cattle; china; eggs; environmental monitoring; fishes; food
   contamination; halogenated diphenyl ethers; machine learning; meat;
   persistent organic pollutants; polychlorinated biphenyls; polychlorinated
   dibenzodioxins; risk assessment; swine; china; health risks; marine
   pollution; polychlorinated biphenyls; population statistics; regression
   analysis; risk analysis; risk assessment; furan; polybrominated diphenyl
   ether; polychlorinated biphenyl; polychlorodibenzo p dioxin furan;
   unclassified drug; diphenyl ether derivative; polychlorinated biphenyl;
   polychlorinated dibenzodioxin; dioxins/furans; food safety; machine
   learning; organics; polybrominated diphenyl ether; polybrominated
   diphenylethers; polychlorinated biphenyl; polychlorodibenzo-p-dioxin/furan;
   risks assessments; western china; concentration ( composition ); food
   safety; health risk; machine learning; pbde; pcb; pcdd; persistent organic
   pollutant; risk assessment; article; beef; bioaccumulation; chemical
   structure; china; contamination; egg; fish; food; food safety; freshwater
   fish; gas chromatography; liver; machine learning; marine fish; monte carlo
   method; nonhuman; oceanic pollution; persistent organic pollutant; pig;
   pollution; pork; principal component analysis; random forest; risk
   assessment; shapley additive explanation; solid phase extraction; support
   vector machine; western china; animal; bovine; environmental monitoring;
   food contamination; meat; risk assessment; fish

---

UT 1055
AR Bahmid NA, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF, P1, DOI
   10.1201/9781032633602-1
TI Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry: A Sustainable Approach
AU Bahmid NA; Jatmiko TH
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) has developed at a rapid pace and changed
   many industries , including the food business . ai and internet of things
   devices equipped with sensors can be used to solve current problems in the
   sustainability aspects of food and agriculture sectors . ai benefits for the
   food industry include helping sort food quality , accelerating the supply
   chain management process , protecting food safety , developing new and
   consumer demanding food products , maintaining the sanitation of production
   equipment , and improving food production quality . however , despite the
   benefits of ai for the food industry , the food industry should also be
   highly concerned about environmental effects . this chapter highlights and
   discusses the sustainable practices and ways of ai to support future food
   industry development , such as machine learning , deep learning , computer
   vision , generic algorithms , and fuzzy logic that are mostly applied by the
   food industry . this chapter also discusses the sustainable purpose of ai
   for the food industry and the future challenges of ai

---

UT 1056
AR Hasdyna N, 2026, J ARTIF INTELL TECHNOL, V6, P168, DOI
   10.37965/jait.2025.0912
TI Integrated Machine Learning Framework for Smart Food Systems Optimization in
   Aceh, Indonesia
AU Hasdyna N; Dinata RK; Maulana M; Fajri TI
TC 0
SO J ARTIF INTELL TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB effective management of smart food systems in aceh , indonesia , requires
   accurate forecasting , assessment of regional vulnerability , and robust
   supply chain monitoring . this study presents a multistage machine learning
   ( ml ) framework integrating predictive modeling , clustering optimization ,
   and classification to support evidence based food management decisions .
   ridge regression projected food commodity prices for 20252028 , achieving an
   average mean squared error ( mse ) of 43.045.946 and an average root mean
   squared error ( rmse ) of 4.352,238 , capturing trends for both staple and
   highvalue commodities . regional food vulnerability is evaluated using k
   means clustering enhanced with simple additive weighting ( saw ) -based
   centroid initialization , which reduces the average number of iterations to
   7.5 compared to 8.7 for standard kmeans . the saw enhanced clustering
   achieves an average calinskiharabasz score of 40.887 and an average
   silhouette score of 0.288 , generating three coherent clusters : food secure
   , food vulnerable , and food insecure . classification of regional supply
   chain stability using support vector machines ( svm ) with radial basis
   function ( rbf ) and sigmoid kernels alongside random forest ( rf )
   demonstrates that svm rbf attains 94.59 % accuracy , svm sigmoid reaches 46
   % , and rf achieves a mean 10-fold cross validation accuracy of 98.89 % with
   low variability and f1-scores ranging from 0.985 to 0.995. by integrating
   predictive , clustering , and classification analyzes , this framework
   provides actionable insights that enable policymakers to anticipate price
   fluctuations , identify vulnerable districts , and implement targeted
   interventions , thereby enhancing food security and resilience in aceh . the
   proposed methodology highlights the value of combining multiple ml
   approaches for optimizing smart food systems in regional contexts
DE aceh; commodity price prediction; machine learning; smart food system;
   supply chain classification; vulnerability clustering optimization

---

UT 1057
AR Handoko R, 2026, ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL, V17, P105, DOI
   10.24507/icicelb.17.01.105
TI IMPLEMENTATION OF DEEP LEARNING CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK IN IDENTIFYING
   FOOD INGREDIENTS FOR COMPLEMENTARY FEEDING RECOMMENDATION
AU Handoko R; Natalia F; Sudirman S; Ko CS
TC 0
SO ICIC EXPRESS LETT B APPL
PY 2026
AB indonesia is facing a serious issue of malnutrition , resulting in stunting
   among infants and toddlers . stunting can impede physical growth , health ,
   and cognitive development in children . the government highlights the
   importance of education on exclusive breastfeeding and complementary feeding
   rich in protein as effective preventive measures . limited understanding of
   complementary feeding hinders the selection of appropriate menus and cooking
   techniques to provide adequate nutrition to children . this research is
   based on the implementation of one of the deep learning algorithms ,
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , to recognize and classify images by
   comparing the performance of two transfer learning models , vgg16 and
   mobilenetv2 . the models are trained on images of high protein food
   ingredients suitable for children aged 6 to 23 months , as recommended by
   the ministry of health . the best model is implemented in an android
   application to provide complementary foods for breast milk ( cfbm )
   recommendations . the application is developed using the android studio ide
   with the kotlin programming language . the model will be implemented using
   tensorflow lite . this application will provide recommendations for cfbm
   menu recipes based on submitted food ingredients , and users can save their
   favorite menus using the favorite feature . icic international 2026 .
DE convolutional neural network; mobilenetv2; stunting; transfer learning;
   vgg16

---

UT 1058
AR Rizqi B, 2025, FORUM GEOGR, V39, P420, DOI 10.23917/forgeo.v39i3.11234
TI Balancing Urban Growth and Food Autonomy: An Integrated Machine Learning and
   Agricultural Statistics Framework for Local Rice Self Sufficiency in the
   PNAR of Purwokerto, Indonesia
AU Rizqi B; Manessa MDM
TC 1
SO FORUM GEOGR
PY 2025
AB rapid peri urbanization intensifies competition between settlement growth
   and farmland , creating structural risks to local food security . this study
   integrates machine learningbased spatial modeling , agricultural statistics
   , and policy relevant scenarios to examine how land use trajectories
   influence local rice self sufficiency in the proposed new autonomous region
   ( pnar ) of purwokerto , indonesia . multi temporal sentinel 2 imagery
   served as input for random forestbased classification of existing land use ,
   whereas caann was used to simulate transitions and predict land use in 2029
   . the random forest classification model achieved an overall accuracy of 84
   % with a kappa coefficient of 0.81 , while caann model validation through
   hindcasting for 20152024 reached 82 % spatial agreement , with strong class
   stability for paddy fields ( 0.853 ) and built up areas ( 0.973 ) . under
   the business as usual path , paddy fields decline from 8,506 ha ( 2015 ) to
   6,512 ha ( 2029 ) , shifting the rice balance from a +3,791 tons surplus to
   a 12,520 tons deficit . a combined scenario cropping index of 250 , a 2 %
   conversion reduction , and 4 % population moderation restores near
   equilibrium ( +190 tons ) . these findings confirm that safeguarding peri
   urban food resilience requires coordinated land use regulation , demographic
   control , and agrotechnological intensification . the validated caann
   framework offers a transferable decision support tool for sustainable land
   food governance in rapidly growing regions of the global south
DE caann simulation; machine learning; paddy field conversion; random forest
   classification; rice self-sufficiency

---

UT 1059
AR Zhang S/1, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2639 CCIS, P307, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-95-3480-7_22
TI Adaptive Damage Detection Algorithm for Food Packaging Based on Deep
   Learning
AU Zhang S/1; Zhu D; Liang C; Dai J
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB with the rapid development of the food industry , packaging damage has
   become a significant threat to product quality and food safety . traditional
   manual inspection methods suffer from low efficiency and high misjudgment
   rates , failing to meet the dual demands for real time performance and
   accuracy in modern production lines . this paper proposes an adaptive damage
   detection algorithm for food packaging based on lightweight convolutional
   neural networks ( cnns ) . it integrates experimental platforms to achieve
   an automated detection process from image acquisition , model training to
   real time inference . the algorithm introduces a multi scale convolution
   feature extraction mechanism in its design , enhancing the ability to
   identify various types of damage such as tiny cracks , creases , and tears .
   additionally , it improves the robustness and generalization performance of
   the model through data augmentation and regularization techniques .
   experimental results show that the model achieves rapid inference within
   0.13 s per image while maintaining high detection accuracy , making it
   suitable for complex backgrounds and multi material packaging scenarios .
   this study provides an efficient and deployable technical approach for
   intelligent quality inspection of food packaging , with good potential for
   educational application and practical implementation
DE adaptive; convolutional neural network ( cnns ); damage detection; deep
   learning; food packaging
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; food
   safety; image processing; inference engines; learning algorithms; packaging;
   packaging machines; packaging materials; signal detection; adaptive;
   convolutional neural network; convolutional neural network ( convolutional
   neural network ); deep learning; detection algorithm; food industries; food
   packaging; products quality; quality safety; damage detection

---

UT 1060
AR Kim Y, 2026, J FORECAST, V45, P2001, DOI 10.1002/for.70128
TI Leveraging Machine Learning to Predict Food Waste Quantity: Focusing on
   Military Dining Facilities as Large-Scale Food Service Operations
AU Kim Y; Yoon H/1
TC 0
SO J FORECAST
PY 2026
AB food waste reveals inefficiencies in resource use and contributes
   significantly to environmental pollution . in the united states , food waste
   accounts for the majority of total waste , with more than 50 million tons
   generated annually . in military units that operate large scale
   institutional food service facilities and generate significant food waste ,
   effective protocols for food waste control and management are crucial . due
   to the repetitive nature of mass meal services , substantial food waste is
   consistently generated . food waste accounts for the largest share of total
   waste generated across you . s . army facilities , representing over 50 % of
   total output at some installations . dining facilities serve as the primary
   source of this substantial volume . this study develops a machine learning
   model that accounts for both internal and external environmental factors to
   predict the quantity of plate waste in military units . the external
   variables used to identify key factors influencing plate waste generation
   include weather , date , day of the week , and holidays . meal composition
   was the internal variable . by ensuring efficient resource use without waste
   , this study offers insights into achieving environmental sustainability .
   finally , the study explores the suitability of different predictive models
   by comparing the performance of random forest and deep learning approaches
   and assessing the characteristics of the most effective models
DE deep learning; environmental sustainability; food waste; machine learning;
   prediction; random forest
ID food waste; learning systems; machine learning; waste management; deep
   learning; environmental sustainability; food waste; foodservices; large-
   scales; machine learning; military units; random forests; resource use;
   waste quantities; sustainable development

---

UT 1061
AR Sabir Z, 2026, INTL J MODEL SIMUL SCI COMPUT, V17, DOI
   10.1142/S1793962326500066
TI A radial basis deep neural network for the food chain supply system using
   the Allee impacts
AU Sabir Z; Arandas A; Yassine R; Umar M; Salahshour S
TC 0
SO INTL J MODEL SIMUL SCI COMPUT
PY 2026
AB the motive of this study is to design a novel stochastic radial basis deep
   neural network for the food chain ( fc ) supply system with allee impacts .
   two hidden layers are taken and the radial basis is performed in both hidden
   layers . the fc supply model is divided into three species : top predator ,
   predator , and the population of prey . three different model cases are
   numerically presented , and the bayesian regularization ( br ) is used as an
   optimization . the novel process is designed by using the optimization based
   on the br , radial basis along with 25 and 45 neurons in the first and
   second hidden layers . the dataset is obtained by the explicit rungekutta
   scheme , which is used to decrease the mean square error by selecting the
   data as 68 % for training , 20 % for testing , and 12 % for validation . the
   results overlap , small absolute errors and statistical measures are used to
   assess the correctness of the scheme for solving the fc supply system .
   world scientific publishing company .
DE allee impacts; bayesian regularization; deep neural networks; food chain
   supply; radial basis
ID bayesian networks; chains; food supply; mean square error; optimization;
   runge kutta methods; statistical tests; stochastic systems; supply chains;
   allee impact; bayesian regularization; food chain; hidden layers; neural
   networks; optimizations; radial basis; stochastics; supply models; supply
   system; deep neural networks

---

UT 1062
AR Shashikala KS, 2026, PROC INT CONF INTELL DATA COMMUN TECHNOL INTERNET
   THINGS IDCIOT, P796, DOI 10.1109/IDCIoT67589.2026.11455814
TI Emotion-Aware Diet Recommendation System Using Deep Learning and Natural
   Language Inputs
AU Shashikala KS; Vadlamudi S; Jahnavi SR; Bhoomika K; Konnur TR; Keerthana KD
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL DATA COMMUN TECHNOL INTERNET THINGS IDCIOT
PY 2026
AB this paper proposes an intelligent diet recommendation framework that
   incorporates emotional awareness alongside nutritional guidance . the system
   employs deep learning and natural language processing ( nlp ) to deliver
   meal suggestions tailored not only to individual dietary objectives but also
   to the user s emotional condition . unlike conventional diet planners that
   emphasize nutritional requirements alone , the proposed approach integrates
   psychological well being into decision making . emotional cues are extracted
   from unstructured text inputs , such as diary notes or mood descriptions ,
   through a fine tuned transformer model ( e . g . , bert or roberta ) .
   detected emotions are then mapped to food groups and nutrients linked to
   mental health regulation , including serotonin enhancing or magnesium rich
   options . a generative model , such as gpt 2 , produces coherent , context
   aware meal plans in natural language , further refined to support user
   specific requirements such as diabetes management or weight control . by
   bridging the domains of nutrition and affective computing , this work aims
   to provide a holistic and adaptive approach to diet planning that promotes
   both physical and emotional well being
ID behavioral research; decision making; deep learning; learning systems;
   natural language processing systems; nutrition; recommender systems;
   condition; decisions makings; emotional awareness; language processing;
   learning languages; natural languages; psychological well being; text input;
   transformer modeling; unstructured texts; weight control

---

UT 1063
AR Li C/6, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V480, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.143831
TI Data integrity of food and machine learning: Strategies, advances and
   prospective
AU Li C/6; Li J/1; Wang Y-Z
TC 11
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB data integrity is an emerging concept aimed at recording real food
   properties in the form of data throughout the food lifecycle . however , due
   to the one sided nature of current food control data , the comprehensive
   implementation of data integrity has not been fully achieved . because food
   data integrity realization is required to establish the connection of data
   algorithm application . machine learning ( ml ) provides a possibility for
   the practical carrier of food data integrity . despite ml is one of top
   trend in food quality and safety , ml applications are floating on the
   surface . the current review does not reveal the relationships behind
   different algorithms and data patterns . similarly , due to the rapid
   development of ml , the current advanced concepts and data explanation tools
   have not been systematically reviewed . this paper expounds the feasibility
   of machine learning to achieve data integrity and looks forward to the
   future vision brought about by artificial intelligence to data integrity
DE artificial intelligence; data strategy; food integrity; machine learning;
   model interpretation; quality control
ID algorithms; food analysis; machine learning; adversarial machine learning;
   current; data integrity; data strategy; food integrity; food properties;
   learning strategy; machine learning; model interpretations; prospectives;
   real foods; algorithm; artificial intelligence; data integrity; diagnosis;
   food; food control; food quality; human; machine learning; machine learning
   software; quality control; review; food analysis; procedures; data integrity

---

UT 1064
AR Sadeghi A, 2025, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V141, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2025.107324
TI Integrating CNNs and chemometrics for analyzing NIR spectra and RGB images
   in turmeric adulterant detection
AU Sadeghi A; Khani S; Sabourian R; Hajimahmoodi M; Ghasemi JB
TC 17
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2025
AB this study explores the detection and quantitative analysis of adulterants
   in turmeric using advanced optical sensing techniques , including near
   infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy , rgb image analysis , and chemometric methods
   , coupled with deep learning models like convolutional neural networks (
   cnns ) . turmeric , widely used in culinary and medicinal fields , is prone
   to adulteration with substances such as starches , flours , and synthetic
   dyes . conventional detection methods are labor intensive and impractical
   for large scale screening . in this research , cnns were applied to process
   large datasets , while nir spectroscopy and rgb image analysis were
   integrated with chemometric models to enhance adulterant detection . a
   dataset was created using turmeric samples adulterated with corn starch ,
   wheat flour , and rice flour at varying concentrations . both partial least
   squares regression ( plsr ) and cnn models were developed to predict
   adulterant concentrations , demonstrating strong correlations between
   predicted and actual values . a cnn based classification model was also
   built to differentiate among nine concentrations of adulterants ,
   representing various types and concentrations , with high sensitivity and
   specificity . the integration of optical sensing techniques and deep
   learning provides a non destructive , rapid , and accurate method for
   detecting adulteration , offering significant potential for enhancing food
   safety and quality control in turmeric
DE chemometrics; deep learning in food safety; nir spectroscopy; quality
   control; rgb image analysis; turmeric

---

UT 1065
AR Ding H/1, 2025, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V25, P397, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2025.10.035
TI Applications and Prospects of Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry;
   [人工智能在食品产业中的应用及展望]
AU Ding H/1; Song X/2; Dong G; Zhang X/5; Wang C/5; Cui X/1; Hou H; Huang H/2;
   Xu S; Han Y; Yang Y/1
TC 0
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB with the rapid development of artificial intelligence ( ai ) technology ,
   its application in the food industry has become increasingly widespread ,
   covering various segments from breeding and cultivation , production and
   processing , safety testing and regulation , to supply chain management and
   consumer experience . this paper reviewed the key technological research and
   application progress of ai in the food industry chain , and discussed its
   future development directions and challenges in the food industry . ai
   technology has improved the efficiency and quality of agricultural
   production through precision agriculture , intelligent agricultural
   equipment , smart breeding , and yield prediction . at the same time , in
   the field of food production and processing , ai has enhanced production
   efficiency and product safety through automated production lines ,
   production data analysis , and forecasting . in the field of food safety
   regulation , ai , combined with sensor technology , traceability systems ,
   and anomaly detection technology , has enhanced the traceability and safety
   of food . in terms of supply chain management , the application of ai in
   demand forecasting , inventory management , and logistics planning has
   improved the response speed and stability of the supply chain . additionally
   , ai applications in consumer preference analysis and personalized
   recommendations have improved the shopping experience and provided valuable
   consumer insights for businesses . although ai technology has shown great
   potential and advantages in the food industry , it also faces risks and
   challenges such as data privacy and security , technology popularity , and
   regulatory standards , which require the food industry , government
   departments , and the academic community to jointly formulate corresponding
   policies and standards . in the future , ai technology will continue to be a
   key driving force for innovation and sustainable development in the food
   industry , promoting the construction of a healthier , safer , and more
   efficient food ecosystem . 2025 , chinese institute of food science and
   technology
DE artificial intelligence; challenge; food industry; future development
   direction
ID accident prevention; agricultural machinery; anonymity; cultivation; data
   privacy; food industry; food safety; food security; food supply; precision
   agriculture; safety testing; smart agriculture; supply chain management;
   technological forecasting; artificial intelligence technologies; chain
   management; challenge; development directions; food industries; future
   development direction; its applications; research and application;
   technological applications; technological researches; inventory control

---

UT 1066
AR Bharanishree V, 2025, ETIS INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INTELL SYST ETIS, DOI
   10.1109/ETIS64005.2025.10961358
TI Food Recognition in Computer Vision: A Review of Techniques and Future
   Directions
AU Bharanishree V; Roomi SMM; Rajaram S
TC 0
SO ETIS INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INTELL SYST ETIS
PY 2025
AB food detection has gained considerable attention in recent years due to the
   growing demand for automated nutritional monitoring systems , food logging
   apps , and health conscious platforms . deep learning has emerged as the
   leading strategy to address the challenging task of food recognition , owing
   to its ability to identify complex patterns and features from images . this
   study provides a comprehensive overview of recent advancements in food
   recognition using deep learning techniques . we explore several models ,
   including convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) , recurrent neural networks
   ( rnns ) , and state of the art frameworks such as yolo and efficientnet .
   moreover , the survey highlights challenges associated with food image
   datasets , such as intra class variation , occlusion , and the impact of
   cultural and regional diversity . furthermore , this study discusses various
   strategies used for preprocessing , feature extraction , and classification
   in food recognition algorithms . by synthesizing previous research , we
   outline major trends , common methods , and unresolved challenges that can
   guide future developments in food recognition using deep learning
DE convolutional neural networks ( cnns ); deep learning; food recognition;
   image processing
ID deep neural networks; feature selection; food preservatives; image
   classification; optical flows; photointerpretation; recurrent neural
   networks; complex pattern; convolutional neural network; deep learning; food
   detection; food recognition; growing demand; health conscious; images
   processing; monitoring system; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1067
AR Azhar NAAB, 2025, IEEE INT CONF SENSORS NANOTECHNOL SENNANO, P25, DOI
   10.1109/SENNANO64909.2025.11473118
TI Deep Learning Algorithms for Malaysian Food Recognition and Calorie
   Estimation in Diabetes Management
AU Azhar NAAB; Hawari HFB
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF SENSORS NANOTECHNOL SENNANO
PY 2025
AB the growing prevalence of diabetes in malaysia highlights an urgent need for
   dietary tools that align with local eating habits . while calorie tracking
   applications are widely available , they often fall short in recognizing and
   estimating the nutritional values of traditional malaysian foods , which are
   visually rich and complex in presentation . this research addresses that gap
   by developing a deep learning based system for food recognition and calorie
   estimation specifically for malaysian cuisine , with a focus on diabetes
   management . a highly customized dataset was constructed , consisting of
   1,200 images across three representative dishes which are 400 images of kari
   ayam , 400 images of sambal udang and 400 images of singgang ikan . unlike
   existing datasets sourced directly from open platforms , this dataset was
   customized manually which is every image was filtered , cropped , and
   selected with close attention to composition , lighting , and background
   suitability to enhance learning quality . this level of customization
   ensured the model was exposed to diverse , realistic food scenarios ,
   reflecting real world user inputs . yolov8 was chosen for its robust
   architecture and real time inference capabilities . after a series of
   optimization trials involving epoch tuning , data splitting ratios , and
   optimizer selection , the model achieved a remarkable 98.9 % classification
   accuracy , surpassing cnn with mobilenetv2 and svm counterparts that also
   underwent full optimization . a hugging face space web based user interface
   was deployed to simulate real life usage , allowing users to upload food
   images and receive instant food classification predictions along with
   approximate calorie values per serving . the system proves that with the
   right architecture and careful dataset construction , deep learning can
   offer a culturally relevant solution for nutritional tracking . its
   precision and accessibility offer meaningful support to diabetic patients
   striving to manage their calorie intake . moving forward , the system s
   scalability and adaptability pave the way for future development into a
   mobile application with integrated backend support , expanding its real
   world impact even further
DE calorie estimation; cnn; deep learning; diabetes management; food
   recognition; svm; yolov8
ID computer architecture; human computer interaction; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; nutrition; user interfaces; calorie estimations; deep
   learning; diabetes management; eating habits; food recognition; malaysia;
   malaysians; real-world; svm; yolov8; deep learning

---

UT 1068
AR Zhang C/6, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V159, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104964
TI Advancing microplastics detection and prediction: Integrating traditional
   methods with machine learning for environmental and food safety application
AU Zhang C/6; Xiao L; Wang JJ; Song Q; Miao S
TC 10
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : microplastics ( mps ) have emerged as a significant
   environmental threat , necessitating the development of advanced detection
   and analysis approaches . traditional identification techniques are limited
   by accuracy and processing efficiency constraining , hindering a
   comprehensive understanding of the prevalence and impact of mps in both
   environment and food . scope and approach : machine learning ( ml ) and deep
   learning ( dl ) models have gained attention in mps research , offering the
   potential to enhance mps detection accuracy and predictive capabilities .
   this review comprehensively explores the integration of ml and dl models
   into mps research , particularly on the applications in detection and
   prediction . we critically assess the current limitations of ml approaches ,
   such as the challenges of limited datasets that restrict the effectiveness
   of ml approaches . to address these issues , we highlight the significance
   of data augmentation and synthetic data generation as crucial strategies for
   improving model robustness and overcoming the limitations in small and
   imbalanced datasets . key findings and conclusions : this review highlights
   the significant potential of combining ml models with detection and
   prediction methods in mps research . the incorporation of data augmentation
   techniques is emphasized as crucial for enhancing model performance . this
   article also highlights the limitations of current ml approaches for mps
   analysis , emphasizing the need for further research on real world samples
   and nanoscale mps . furthermore , it underscores the promising future
   applications of these techniques in food safety
DE data augmentation; deep learning; identification; machine learning;
   microplastics; spectroscopy
ID data augmentation; deep learning; environmental safety; food safety;
   identification; learning models; machine learning approaches; machine
   learning; microplastics; safety applications; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 1069
AR Khan MMH, 2025, CLIM CHANG IMPACTS WATER-ENERGY-FOOD NEXUS NET EMISS
   SUSTAIN, P525, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-22320-4.00005-0
TI Artificial intelligence (AI) application on food water-energy nexus
AU Khan MMH
TC 0
SO CLIM CHANG IMPACTS WATER-ENERGY-FOOD NEXUS NET EMISS SUSTAIN
PY 2025
AB the emerging popularity of the nexus discussion reflects the ongoing
   transition from a sectoral or silo approach to an integrative approach to
   addressing the global challenges pertinent to the three essential resources
   : food , water , and energy . artificial intelligence ( ai ) has emerged as
   a transformative tool for addressing the challenges within the water energy
   food ( wef ) nexus . this chapter explores how ai technologies can optimize
   resource allocation , support decision making , and enable predictive
   modeling to tackle the interdependencies between water , energy , and food
   systems . drawing insights from recent literature and case studies , this
   chapter highlights ai s role in bridging sectoral gaps , enhancing
   efficiency , and contributing to the sustainable development goals . it
   delves into applications such as precision agriculture , energy systems
   optimization , and water resource management while addressing barriers like
   data silos , ethical concerns , and institutional inertia . by synthesizing
   findings from theoretical frameworks and practical implementations , this
   chapter provides a comprehensive roadmap for leveraging ai in the wef for
   sustainable and equitable resource management
DE ai; energy; food; sdgs; water; wef nexus
ID artificial intelligence; food products; information management; resource
   allocation; sustainable development; sustainable development goals;
   artificial intelligence technologies; decisions makings; energy; global
   challenges; predictive models; resources allocation; water and energies;
   water energy; water system; water energy food nexus; water

---

UT 1070
AR Anita M, 2025, AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND, P69, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-9884-5.ch003
TI Machine Learning for a Smarter Food Industry: Trends, Challenges, and
   Innovations
AU Anita M; Chandra NS; Pavithra N; Bhavani K; Aparna P; Thilagam T; Nivas
   Kumar V
TC 0
SO AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB the food industry is undergoing a significant transformation driven by the
   integration of machine learning ( ml ) technologies . this survey chapter
   explores the diverse applications of ml across key areas such as agriculture
   , food safety , quality control , supply chain optimization , and
   personalized nutrition . we categorize widely used ml models , analyze
   domain specific challenges , and highlight recent advancements including
   federated learning , explainable ai , and multimodal approaches .
   furthermore , we discuss critical issues such as data privacy , model
   transparency , and scalability . the chapter also identifies emerging trends
   and proposes future research directions aimed at building sustainable ,
   intelligent food systems
ID data privacy; food industry; food safety; learning systems; machine
   learning; quality control; smart agriculture; diverse applications; food
   industries; food safety; industry innovations; industry trends; machine
   learning models; machine learning technology; machine learning; safety
   qualities; supply chain optimization; federated learning

---

UT 1071
AR Doan TC, 2025, INNOV CHALLENGES COMPUT GAMES DATA SCI, P269, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-2647-4.ch016
TI Sentiment Analysis of McDonald's Store Reviews in Fast Food Restaurants
   Using Machine Learning
AU Doan TC; Dat MX; Van Ninh N
TC 0
SO INNOV CHALLENGES COMPUT GAMES DATA SCI
PY 2025
AB sentiment analysis is important for understanding customer feedback ,
   especially in the highly competitive fast food industry , where consumer
   perception significantly influences brand loyalty and market positioning .
   this study evaluates the effectiveness of three machine learning models in
   analyzing sentiment from customer reviews of mcdonald s stores across the
   united states , using the ' mcdonald s store reviews ' dataset . the three
   models tested include support vector machines ( svm ) , naive bayes , and
   long short term memory ( lstm ) , with three different approaches : using
   two data balancing techniques synthetic minority over sampling technique (
   smote ) and random oversampling ( ros ) as well as a baseline approach
   without any balancing methods . the results reveal that the svm model ,
   balanced with smote , achieved the maximum accuracy of 94 % , beating the
   other models . this study exhibits the usefulness of svm in sentiment
   classification and underlines the practical value of sentiment analysis in
   maximizing marketing tactics . the insights from sentiment analysis can help
   fast food chains like mcdonald s enhance customer satisfaction , improve
   marketing campaigns , and drive business growth . this research adds to
   building machine learning applications for sentiment analysis , a strong
   tool for data driven decision making in the fast food industry
ID classifiers; commerce; customer satisfaction; data mining; decision making;
   food industry; learning systems; sales; support vector machines; brand
   loyalty; consumer perception; customer feedback; fast food industries; fast
   food restaurants; machine learning; mcdonalds; sentiment analysis; support
   vectors machine; synthetic minority over-sampling techniques; balancing

---

UT 1072
AR Haukas M, 2025, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL COMMUN NETWORKS CICN, P2232, DOI
   10.1109/CICN67655.2025.11368074
TI Lightweight Convolutional Neural Network for Food Freshness Classification
AU Haukas M; Al-Karrad M; Pardhasaradhi B; Cenkeramaddi LR
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL COMMUN NETWORKS CICN
PY 2025
AB food quality and safety play a vital role in safeguarding public health .
   accurate freshness evaluation is critical to ensure product quality and
   safety in the food industry . in this study , we utilize the uc fcd dataset
   , which contains carefully annotated images spanning multiple food
   categories , including fish ( labeo rohita , mola mola , pampus argenteus ,
   dendrobranchiata ) , grains ( oryza sativa l . ) , meat products ( gallus
   gallus domesticus liver ) , dairy products ( withania coagulans ) , baked
   goods ( bread , cake , samosa , laddu , dhokla ) , pickles ( berry and mango
   ) , and eggs . the data is categorized into fresh and spoiled labels .
   conventional assessment approaches like manual inspection is time consuming
   , labor intensive , and susceptible to human error . to address these
   challenges , this work investigates the application of deep learning ( dl )
   techniques for automated freshness classification . we propose a resnet
   inspired lightweight convolutional neural network ( cnn ) to perform a
   binary classification task . the proposed model achieves a validation
   accuracy of 98.72 % , by outperforming several state of the art models ,
   convnext , densenet , and efficientnet . also , the proposed model is
   compact in size with 908 kb . the closest competing model is nasnetv3large
   with 98.5 % accuracy but requires 11.43 mb of size . the proposed model
   provides high accuracy and a minimal memory footprint , making it a suitable
   candidate for deployment in real world scenarios on resource constrained
   devices
DE deep learning; food classification; food industry; lightweight cnn
ID accident prevention; convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural
   networks; food safety; public health; uranium compounds; convolutional
   neural network; deep learning; food classification; food industries; food
   quality and safeties; labeo rohita; lightweight convolutional neural
   network; product safety; products quality; quality and safeties;
   classification ( of information )

---

UT 1073
AR Ravindhiran R, 2025, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, DOI 10.1007/s13197-025-06430-9
TI Detection of foodborne Listeria monocytogenes using deep learning models to
   ensure food safety and health
AU Ravindhiran R; Dhandapani K
TC 0
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB listeria monocytogenes is an important pathogen responsible for major
   outbreaks worldwide , necessitating its early detection to prevent
   listeriosis . hence , this study prioritized the early detection of l .
   monocytogenes using yolov5 deep learning algorithms . an ultraviolet lamp
   was attached to the detection system to maintain a sterile environment .
   images of l . monocytogenes grown on palcam agar were given as input for the
   bacterial predictions . further , it was classified and regression layers
   for the identification of l . monocytogenes were constructed . a powerful
   led light ( optical source ) enhanced the performance of the detection . the
   effectiveness of the developed detection system was achieved with an average
   accuracy of ~ 94 % . perceptibly , the proposed system offers high accuracy
   , precision with cost affordability and user friendliness . the early
   detection of bacteria would improve food safety . in addition , exploitation
   of the developed system in healthcare industries may drastically reduce the
   endurance of resistant strains ( misuse / overuse of inappropriate
   antibiotics ) , thus ensuring public health . association of food scientists
   and technologists ( india ) 2025 .
ID antibiotics; deep learning; food microbiology; food safety; learning
   algorithms; pathogens; classifieds; detection system; food safety;
   lmonocytogenes; learning models; led lights; listeria monocytogenes;
   listeriosis; safety and healths; sterile environments; listeria

---

UT 1074
AR Lopez MA, 2026, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V25, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.70443
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Safety: A Tertiary Study
AU Lopez MA; Bouzembrak Y; Tekinerdogan B
TC 2
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2026
AB food safety remains a critical factor in preventing contaminated and
   hazardous products from reaching consumers . the integration of artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) and its capacity to deal with vast datasets has
   significantly enhanced food safety protocols , and a substantial number of
   primary and secondary studies have emerged at the intersection of these two
   domains . although several studies have addressed ai applications in food
   safety , no tertiary study has yet synthesized the collective insights from
   existing systematic reviews . to address this gap , this paper provides a
   comprehensive overview of the current state of ai applications in food
   safety through a systematic tertiary analysis of secondary studies . by
   systematically analyzing secondary studies , this research identifies key
   trends such as the food categories most frequently investigated , the data
   sources utilized , prevalent food safety hazards , the commonly adopted ai
   algorithms , and the challenges associated with their implementation within
   the field . the analysis revealed that dairy products received the greatest
   research attention , with sensing data serving as the primary data source .
   neural networks emerged as the predominant ai approach . furthermore , most
   applications focused on the detection of chemical food safety hazards rather
   than biological , physical , or general predictive modeling . notably , this
   study highlights a lack of ai algorithms utilizing unstructured data ,
   despite its growing relevance in the era of generative ai . accordingly ,
   future research directions are discussed , particularly the transformative
   potential of large language models ( llms ) in food safety monitoring and
   regulatory compliance . 2026 the author ( s ) . comprehensive reviews in
   food science and food safety published by wiley periodicals llc on behalf of
   institute of food technologists .
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; food contamination; food safety;
   humans; neural networks computer; artificial intelligence; chemical
   contamination; chemical detection; chemical hazards; food chemistry; food
   microbiology; food safety; regulatory compliance; safety factor; artificial
   intelligence algorithms; contaminated product; critical factors; food
   safety; hazardous products; safety hazards; safety protocols; synthesized;
   tertiary study; two domains; algorithm; artificial intelligence; artificial
   neural network; food contamination; food safety; human; procedures;
   biohazards

---

UT 1075
AR Gupta R, 2025, ENERGY, V328, DOI 10.1016/j.energy.2025.136613
TI Predicting the methane production of microwave-pretreated anaerobic
   digestion of food waste: A machine learning approach
AU Gupta R; Murray C; Sloan WT; You S
TC 8
SO ENERGY
PY 2025
AB anaerobic digestion ( ad ) is a widely adopted waste management strategy
   that transforms organic waste into biogas , addressing both energy and
   environmental challenges . feedstock pretreatment is crucial for enhancing
   organic matter breakdown and improving biogas yield . among various
   techniques , microwave ( mw ) irradiation based pretreatment has shown
   significant promise . however , the optimization of mw assisted ad processes
   remains underexplored , necessitating predictive tools for process
   simulation . machine learning ( ml ) has recently emerged as a powerful
   alternative for predicting and optimizing ad performance . in this study ,
   an ml driven pipeline was developed to predict methane yield based on food
   waste ( fw ) composition , ad reactor parameters , and mw pretreatment
   conditions . a range of data preprocessing techniques and ml models ( linear
   , non linear , and ensemble ) were systematically evaluated , with model
   performance assessed via hyperparameter optimized cross validation . the
   most accurate models ( non linear and ensemble ) achieved r2 > 0.91 and rmse
   70 ml / gvs ) . support vector machine ( svm ) emerged as the best
   performing model , with r2 0.94 and rmse 34 ml / gvs . beyond predictive
   accuracy , this study offers novel insights into mw pretreatment s role in
   ad efficiency . permutation feature importance ( pfi ) analysis revealed
   that while mw pretreatment enhances methane yield , its effects are
   secondary to reactor ph and fw composition . this suggests that mw treatment
   primarily facilitates substrate disintegration but does not drastically
   alter biochemical methane potential unless coupled with optimized reactor
   conditions . additionally , minor fluctuations in mw pretreatment time and
   temperature were found to have negligible impacts on methane production ,
   indicating a level of operational flexibility in mw based ad processes .
   these findings provide a refined understanding of mw pretreatment s
   practical implications , guiding process design for improved scalability and
   industrial application
DE anaerobic digestion; food waste; machine learning; microwave pretreatment;
   process model
ID decision making; efficiency; waste disposal; anaerobic digestion process;
   anaerobics; food waste; machine learning; methane production; methane yield;
   microwave pretreatment; process-models; volatile solid; waste composition;
   anaerobic digestion; biogas; food waste; machine learning; methane;
   numerical model; organic matter; prediction; waste management; waste
   treatment

---

UT 1076
AR Rambabu D, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V2,
   P14324
TI AI-Powered Personalized Diet Recommendation System for Optimized Nutrition
   and Health
AU Rambabu D; Bharadwaj SN; Deekshith TS; Akash BS
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB in the evolving landscape of health and nutrition , artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) presents a revolutionary approach to personalized dietary planning .
   this research introduces an ai powered personalized diet recommendation
   system that tailors meal plans based on user attributes , including age ,
   gender , dietary preferences , health goals , and cultural backgrounds . by
   leveraging machine learning algorithms and adaptive learning techniques ,
   the system dynamically refines meal recommendations to enhance adherence and
   optimize nutritional intake . a vast nutritional database and real time
   feedback mechanisms ensure that the system continuously evolves to meet
   individual dietary needs . the proposed framework outperforms traditional
   rule based methods by achieving 92.4 % accuracy , demonstrating improved
   user satisfaction and adherence to dietary guidelines . the system s
   cultural adaptability ensures regional food preferences are incorporated ,
   increasing practical usability . experimental results highlight the
   potential of ai driven nutrition systems in preventive healthcare , offering
   scientifically backed , personalized meal recommendations to promote long
   term wellness . this research underscores the transformative impact of ai in
   dietary science , bridging the gap between nutritional expertise and real
   world application
DE adaptive diet recommendation; ai in preventive healthcare; cultural
   adaptability in nutrition; machine learning in diet planning; personalized
   nutrition
ID human computer interaction; learning algorithms; machine learning;
   nutrition; optimization; adaptive diet recommendation; algorithm learning;
   artificial intelligence in preventive healthcare; cultural adaptability in
   nutrition; cultural backgrounds; machine learning algorithms; machine
   learning in diet planning; machine learning; personalized nutrition; plan-
   based; learning systems

---

UT 1077
AR Zhou J/2, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14010127
TI Bioinformatics and Deep Learning Approach to Discover Food-Derived Active
   Ingredients for Alzheimer’s Disease Therapy
AU Zhou J/2; Li C/2; Kim YK; Park S
TC 7
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB alzheimer s disease ( ad ) prevention is a critical challenge for aging
   societies , necessitating the exploration of food ingredients and whole
   foods as potential therapeutic agents . this study aimed to identify natural
   compounds ( ncs ) with therapeutic potential in ad using an innovative
   bioinformatics integrated deep neural analysis approach , combining
   computational predictions with molecular docking and in vitro experiments
   for comprehensive evaluation . we employed the bioinformatics integrated
   deep neural analysis of ncs for disease discovery ( biodeepnat ) application
   in the data collected from chemical databases . random forest regression
   models were utilized to predict the ic50 ( pic50 ) values of ligands
   interacting with ad related target proteins , including acetylcholinesterase
   ( ache ) , amyloid precursor protein ( app ) , beta secretase 1 ( bace1 ) ,
   microtubule associated protein tau ( mapt ) , presenilin 1 ( psen1 ) , tumor
   necrosis factor ( tnf )-, and valosin containing protein ( vcp ) . their
   activities were then validated through a molecular docking analysis using
   autodock vina . predictions by the deep neural analysis identified 166 ncs
   with potential effects on ad across seven proteins , demonstrating
   outstanding recall performance . the top five food sources of these
   predicted compounds were black walnut , safflower , ginger , fig , corn ,
   and pepper . statistical clustering methodologies segregated the ncs into
   six well defined groups , each characterized by convergent structural and
   chemical signatures . the systematic examination of structureactivity
   relationships uncovered differential molecular patterns among clusters ,
   illuminating the sophisticated correlation between molecular properties and
   biological activity . notably , ncs with high activity , such as astragalin
   , dihydromyricetin , and coumarin , and medium activity , such as luteolin ,
   showed promising effects in improving cell survival and reducing lipid
   peroxidation and tnf expression levels in pc12 cells treated with
   lipopolysaccharide . in conclusion , our findings demonstrate the efficacy
   of combining bioinformatics with deep neural networks to expedite the
   discovery of previously unidentified food derived active ingredients ( ncs )
   for ad intervention
DE alzheimers disease; deep neural analysis; flavonoids; inflammation;
   neurogenerative disease

---

UT 1078
AR Liu X, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V510, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2026.148714
TI From fluorescence imaging to intelligent quantification: An automated and
   intelligent platform for Al3+ detection in food samples using a machine
   learning-enhanced Ratiometric probe
AU Liu X; Bu Q; Cheng Z; Huang X/4; Liu X/2; He X; Zhang X/4; Feng X; Zhou L
TC 0
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB this study presents an intelligent detection platform for al3+ sensing by
   integrating a ratiometric fluorescence probe , smartphone imaging and a
   feedforward neural network ( ffnn ) algorithm . the probe suspension
   exhibits distinct fluorescence color transition from orange to green upon
   al3+ binding , demonstrating a wide linear range ( 0.1100 m ) , high
   selectivity , a low detection limit ( 11.6 g / kg ) , and a rapid response
   time ( 30 s ) . the fluorescence images was processed by a simple matlab
   program to extract digital rgb values , which were then input into a three
   layer ffnn for al3+ concentration prediction within minutes . trained on an
   extensive dataset of 720 rgb value sets , the ffnn model demonstrated
   superior predictive performance with correlation coefficients of 0.9979 ,
   0.9973 , 0.9970 for training , validation , and test sets , respectively .
   the detection system was applied in detecting al3+ in starch noodles ,
   achieving recovery rates of 98.60 % 102.2 % and relative standard deviations
   below 1.190 % . and the results obtained align with those generated by
   standard icp ms method . this study presents a user friendly , rapid , and
   effective platform for the automated and intelligent sensing of al3+ ,
   enabling the high throughput analysis of large sample sets under unmanned
   conditions
DE al3+; feedforward neural network; fluorescent assay; intelligent detection;
   ratiometric probe
ID aluminum; automation; fluorescent dyes; food analysis; food contamination;
   limit of detection; machine learning; neural networks computer; optical
   imaging; smartphone; aluminum compounds; fluorescence imaging; image
   processing; learning systems; machine learning; matlab; probes; statistical
   tests; fluorescent dye; starch; aluminum; al3+; feedforward; fluorescence
   imaging; fluorescent assays; food samples; intelligent detection;
   intelligent platform; neural networks; ratiometric; ratiometric probe;
   article; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; concentration (
   parameter ); controlled study; correlation coefficient; feedforward neural
   network; fluorescence imaging; food analysis; food safety monitoring; high
   throughput analysis; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry; limit of
   detection; machine learning; noodle; potato; prediction; sweet potato;
   validation study; automation; chemistry; devices; evaluation study; food
   contamination; machine learning; procedures; smartphone; feedforward neural
   networks

---

UT 1079
AR Valencia JMG, 2026, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V14140, DOI
   10.1117/12.3107901
TI HealthyMeApp: Computer Vision for Food Scanning and Dietary Awareness Using
   YOLOv8 and Convolutional Neural Network
AU Valencia JMG; Arellano CAP; Cueto DKL; Balmes IL
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2026
AB the healthyme app , which is a capstone project incorporating artificial
   intelligence , specifically computer vision ( i . e . , yolov8 , and cnn )
   and tracking diet to review their dietary intake and analysis through images
   , enables students to track what they eat and understand their diet by
   calculating bmi , calories , and macronutrients based on a photo of their
   meals . the app provides immediate feedback to the user by advising them of
   alternatives or new food recommendations that may be healthier than what
   they consumed . the project used a scrum model and developed the basic
   functionalities of ai scanning a food item , step tracking , food suggesting
   , and an administrator dashboard . the app hopes to help people make
   informed dietary choices , encourage a wellness state , and contribute a
   dietary assessment tool to the digital health ecosystem by increasing
   accuracy . 2026 spie
DE fitness tracking; functionality; health and wellness application; policies;
   safety; scrum methodology; sustainability; usability
ID computer vision; food safety; functional food; medical applications; neural
   networks; nutrition; sustainable development; capstone projects;
   convolutional neural network; dietary intakes; fitness tracking;
   functionality; health and wellness; health and wellness application; scrum
   methodologies; usability; wellness applications; public policy

---

UT 1080
AR Balakrishnan P, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V163, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105153
TI Artificial intelligence for food safety: From predictive models to real-
   world safeguards
AU Balakrishnan P; Anny Leema A; Jothiaruna N; Assudani PJ; Sankar K; Kulkarni
   MB; Bhaiyya M
TC 40
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB food safety is no longer just a lab issue . it is a real world challenge
   that affects everyone from farmers and vendors to regulators and consumers .
   with rising concerns about adulteration , spoilage , and contamination in
   everyday items like milk , oils , fruits , and ready to eat meals ,
   traditional testing methods often fall short . they are too slow , too
   expensive , and not designed for real time action . this review explores how
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) are stepping in
   as game changers . we highlight real case studies where ai models , combined
   with tools like spectroscopy , smart sensors , and computer vision , are
   detecting food fraud and spoilage quickly and accurately . beyond the
   technology , we also discuss challenges like data gaps , model trust , and
   affordability in rural areas , while offering forward looking solutions like
   federated learning and low cost ai devices . this review will be especially
   valuable for food scientists , quality assurance professionals , tech
   developers , policy makers , and startups looking to build safer , smarter
   food systems . it is a practical guide for turning ai innovation into real
   world food safety solutions
DE artificial intelligence; convolutional neural networks; explainable ai;
   federated learning; food adulteration detection; food safety; machine
   learning; non-invasive testing; ready-to-eat foods; real time monitoring;
   smart packaging; spectroscopy; spoilage detection
ID convolutional neural networks; food safety; food security; learning systems;
   machine learning; nondestructive examination; spoilage; convolutional neural
   network; explainable artificial intelligence; food adulteration detection;
   food adulterations; food safety; machine learning; non-invasive testing;
   ready-to-eat foods; real time monitoring; smart packaging; spoilage
   detection; quality assurance; safety testing

---

UT 1081
AR Ndondo JTK, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P23,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00016-3
TI The basis, progress, and future of food and bioprocess with artificial
   intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) techniques
AU Ndondo JTK; Musunda GT; Manditsera FA; Kativu SN; Kwaramba P
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB this chapter is an overview of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine
   learning ( ml ) in food science and bioprocesses . this comprehensive work
   introduces the subject of ai to new readers , focusing on the important
   applications and progress of this technology in food science and related
   areas such as bioprocess . food science involves examining the biological ,
   chemical , and physical makeup of food , understanding what leads to food
   spoilage , and grasping the principles behind food processing bioprocessing
   on the other hand , is loosely defined as the production of value added
   materials to industrial scale from a living source such as living cells . ai
   has revolutionized many industries , altering operational frameworks to
   offer innovative solutions to longstanding challenges . this book chapter
   first provides an overview of the food science and bioprocess industries and
   comprehensively describes the various ai and ml applications in food science
   and also emerging applications in the bioprocess development . limitations
   of ai are then discussed before concluding with the final section of the
   chapter , which emphasizes the futuristic perspective of ai and ml in food
   science and bioprocess development
DE artificial intelligence; bioprocess; food processing; food quality;
   industries; machine learning
ID biological materials; food chemistry; food industry; food microbiology; food
   processing; food science; machine learning; processed foods; artificial
   intelligence learning; bioprocess development; bioprocesses; bioprocessing;
   food quality; food science; food spoilage; industrial scale; machine
   learning techniques; machine learning; learning systems

---

UT 1082
AR Sumathi A, 2026, PROC - ICSES INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART
   ELECTR SYST, DOI 10.1109/ICSES66558.2026.11479155
TI Seamless Food Delivery Enabled by Deep Learning and Natural Language
   Processing Models
AU Sumathi A; Kavitha A
TC 0
SO PROC - ICSES INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST
PY 2026
AB digital platforms have evolved rapidly and the food delivery industry
   requires solutions that are intelligent , responsive , and scalable to
   respond to the growing customer expectations . this paper introduces an ai
   based system that combines deep learning ( dl ) and natural language
   processing ( nlp ) tools to make food delivery services smoother ,
   customized , and more efficient . using transformer based classification
   models such as distilbert to classify intent and analyze sentiment , the
   system is able to understand user queries and feedback in real time and
   decode them correctly . at the same time , a hybrid recommendation engine is
   a mix of collaborative filtering and content based filtering with the
   nlpbased personalization used to propose food options in the context . in
   the case of optimization of operations , the lstm networks make predictions
   of estimated delivery times ( eta ) , whereas the graph neural networks (
   gnns ) optimize routing in dynamic traffic . tcns can be used to predict the
   future demand so that smart fleet allocation becomes possible . the
   suggested model succeeds in the sentiment classification with an accuracy of
   97.33 , intent classification with an accuracy of 98.03 , and the mean
   absolute eta prediction error is only 0.74 minutes . the full implementation
   is based on the microservices that are scalable and able to respond in real
   time to both web and mobile interfaces . findings in 10,000 user
   interactions reveal that there is a great enhancement in personalization and
   delivery accuracy and user satisfaction
DE deep learning; distilbert; eta prediction; food delivery; gnn; lstm; nlp;
   recommendation system
ID data mining; distributed computer systems; fleet operations; forecasting;
   information systems; learning algorithms; learning systems; natural language
   processing systems; deep learning; distilbert; eta prediction; food
   delivery; graph neural networks; language processing; learning languages;
   lstm; natural language processing; natural languages; deep learning;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1083
AR Nekrasov PO, 2026, J CHEM TECH, V34, P167, DOI
   10.15421/jchemtech.v34i1.351426
TI USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN FOOD TECHNOLOGIES ON THE EXAMPLE OF
   OPTIMIZING PARAMETERS OF THE ENZYMATIC PROCESS FOR COCOA BUTTER EQUIVALENT
   PRODUCTION; [ВИКОРИСТАННЯ ШТУЧНОГО ІНТЕЛЕКТУ У ХАРЧОВИХ ТЕХНОЛОГІЯХ НА
   ПРИКЛАДІ ОПТИМІЗАЦІЇ ПАРАМЕТРІВ ФЕРМЕНТАТИВНОГО ПРОЦЕСУ ВИРОБНИЦТВА
   ЕКВІВАЛЕНТА КАКАО-МАСЛА]
AU Nekrasov PO
TC 0
SO J CHEM TECH
PY 2026
AB in this study , an approach to intelligent control of biocatalytic processes
   in food technologies was substantiated and validated using the optimization
   of enzymatic interesterification for the production of a cocoa butter
   equivalent in a continuous packed bed reactor with immobilized lipase . high
   oleic sunflower oil and a mixture of ethyl esters of palmitic and stearic
   acids were used as substrates . the controlled factors were the molar ratio
   of ethyl esters to oil ( 49 mol / mol ) , temperature ( 5075 c ) , and
   hydrodynamic residence time ( 1560 min ) . the methodological framework was
   based on integrating artificial intelligence models with an evolutionary
   optimization method , namely particle swarm optimization . experimental data
   were obtained using an orthogonal maximin latin hypercube design and used to
   compare nine regression models via nested cross validation . support vector
   regression with a radial basis function kernel provided the highest accuracy
   and the lowest inter fold variability . the selected model was used as the
   fitness function in particle swarm optimization , enabling determination of
   the opti mal enzymatic interesterification conditions : substrate molar
   ratio of 6 mol / mol , temperature of 65 c , and residence time of 38 min .
   a confirmatory experiment verified the adequacy of the model in the vicinity
   of the optimum : the cocoa butter equivalent yield was 77.0 1.1 % , with a
   relative deviation of = 0.52 % . the results demonstrate the effectiveness
   of using artificial intelligence to identify optimal parameters of
   biocatalytic processes in food industry technologies . 2025 oles honchar
   dnipro national university .
DE artificial intelligence; cocoa butter equivalent; interesterification;
   lipase; particle swarm optimization

---

UT 1084
AR Cao G, 2025, WORLD DEV, V196, DOI 10.1016/j.worlddev.2025.107171
TI How robust are machine learning approaches for improving food security amid
   crises?  - Evidence from COVID-19 in Uganda
AU Cao G; Kornher L; Brandi C
TC 1
SO WORLD DEV
PY 2025
AB amidst different global food insecurity challenges , like the covid 19
   pandemic and economic turmoil , this article investigates the potential of
   machine learning ( ml ) to enhance food insecurity forecasting . so far ,
   only few existing studies have used pre shock training data to predict food
   insecurity and if they did , they have neither done this at the household
   level nor systematically tested the performance and robustness of ml
   algorithms during the shock phase . to address this research gap , we use
   pre covid trained models to predict household level food insecurity during
   the covid 19 pandemic in uganda and propose a new approach to evaluate the
   performance and robustness of ml models . the objective of this study is
   therefore to find high performance and robust ml algorithms during a shock
   period , which is both methodologically innovative and practically relevant
   for food insecurity research . first , we find that ml can work well in a
   shock context when only pre shock food security data are available . we can
   identify 80 % of food insecure households during the covid 19 pandemic based
   on pre shock trained models at the cost of falsely classifying around 40 %
   of food secure households as food insecure . second , we show that the
   extreme gradient boosting algorithm , trained by balanced weighting , works
   best in terms of prediction quality . we also identify the most important
   predictors and find that demographic and asset features play a crucial role
   in predicting food insecurity . last but not least , we also make a
   contribution by showing how different ml models should be evaluated in terms
   of their area under curve ( auc ) value , the ability of the model to
   correctly classify positive and negative cases , and in terms of the change
   in auc in different situations
DE covid-19 pandemic; food insecurity; machine learning; robust prediction;
   uganda
ID uganda; algorithm; covid-19; food security; food supply; machine learning;
   prediction

---

UT 1085
AR Thakur S/1, 2025, INT CONF SYST COMPUT NETWORKS ISCON, DOI
   10.1109/ISCON65210.2025.11341593
TI Explainable Deep Learning Models for Food Fraud Detection and its
   Authenticity Analysis
AU Thakur S/1; Jain P; Agarwal S; Meena J; Gupta VK; Singh LK
TC 0
SO INT CONF SYST COMPUT NETWORKS ISCON
PY 2025
AB food fraud represents a worldwide escalating threat because it affects
   public health management alongside consumer safety as well as economic
   losses . artificial intelligence ( ai ) functions as a powerful
   investigative tool because traditional food authentication methods fail to
   discover modern complex food scams . deep learning ( dl ) models prove
   effective for boosting accuracy together with the efficiency of food fraud
   detection systems . the research investigates how explainable artificial
   intelligence ( xai ) works with dl models used to analyze food authenticity
   . dl uses convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks and
   generative models as components to perform complete food composition
   analysis while identifying adulterants and detecting irregularities in both
   spectral and imaging data series . xai plays a critical part in making these
   models easy to understand because it uses shapley additive explanations and
   local interpretable model agnostic explanations tools to reveal both
   decision mechanisms and the importance of features . the paper explores the
   cooperative effect of ai with cutting edge spectroscopy systems like near
   infrared , hyperspectral imaging , and raman spectroscopy when these systems
   deliver precise compositions of food materials . the field still encounters
   multiple difficulties including complex computability and live computation
   and approval regulations together with moral dilemmas
DE convolutional neural networks; dl; explainable ai; food fraud detection;
   recurrent neural networks
ID authentication; convolution; convolutional neural networks; crime; deep
   neural networks; food safety; food security; health risks; hyperspectral
   imaging; learning systems; losses; public health; raman spectroscopy;
   consumer safety; convolutional neural network; deep learning; economic loss;
   explainable artificial intelligence; food fraud detection; fraud detection;
   health management; learning models; neural networks; infrared devices

---

UT 1086
AR Gupta H, 2026, MACH LEARN BASED APPROACHES PEDAGOG DATA ANAL, P78, DOI
   10.1201/9781003559511-4
TI Recipe Vision: A Machine Learning Approach for Pedagogical Food Image
   Analysis and Image-to-Recipe Generation
AU Gupta H; Majumdar P; Rocha A
TC 0
SO MACH LEARN BASED APPROACHES PEDAGOG DATA ANAL
PY 2026
AB the changing food technology sector combined with artificial intelligence
   poses hurdles to home cooks and food enthusiasts who need to identify food
   pictures and reproduce them . this project works on building and deploying
   an advanced recipe vision system powered by google gemini ai . development
   work led to the establishment of an automated system able to perform
   extensive analysis on food pictures then identify contents and cooking
   methods before creating detailed , ready to use recipes . the combination of
   the google gemini pro vision model with fastapi and streamlit allows the
   system to perform accurate food image evaluation and generate recipes and
   instruction details . the system implements parallel processing along with a
   reliable design to handle recipe generation aspects which include ingredient
   detection , measurements , cooking procedures , and nutritional facts .
   developers incorporated complex image processing capabilities while adding
   ai into the system for recipe creation functions , together with an easy to
   use interface that accommodates all skill levels of users . the research
   shows ai technologies revolutionize classic food search and development
   processes by turning pictures into structured executable cookbooks through
   organized computer generated methodologies . ai demonstrates its potential
   to improve the culinary experience by supplying culturally adapted and well
   balanced meal recipes to users . this study provides an useful example of
   how artificial intelligence might improve hands on learning in culinary
   science . it gives students an interactive tool to comprehend ingredient
   composition , cooking methods , and nutritional analysis by converting food
   photos into structured recipes . the system can be used in educational
   settings to educate nutrition , food science , and ai integration in
   practical settings . additionally , the recipe creation process promotes
   skill development through data driven and visual learning by demonstrating
   how machine learning can assess complicated data inputs , such as images ,
   to produce valuable educational content . 2026 anirban mukherjee , arpan
   deyasi , soumen mukherjee , pampa debnath and lidia ghosh .
ID cooking; engineering education; food chemistry; food ingredients; image
   analysis; learning systems; machine learning; nutrition; teaching; automated
   systems; cooking methods; food image; google+; image analyze; image
   analysis; machine learning approaches; project work; technology sectors;
   vision systems; automation

---

UT 1087
AR Singh P/1, 2025, FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL, V18, P1125, DOI
   10.1007/s11947-024-03527-5
TI Substantial Enhancement of Overall Efficiency and Effectiveness of the
   Pasteurization and Packaging Process Using Artificial Intelligence in the
   Food Industry
AU Singh P/1; Pandey VK; Singh R/1; Negi P; Maurya SN; Rustagi S
TC 14
SO FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB pasteurization is a necessary process that has to be done in order to ensure
   the health of the general public and for consumption dates ( perished goods
   ) . the employment of artificial intelligence in pasteurization changes the
   course of technology and embodies a radical leap forward in food safety and
   quality . artificial intelligence integrates precision , control , and
   efficiency levels of pasteurization mainstreamed traditionally by
   conventional food processing methods . several artificial intelligence
   applications have been implemented for microbiological safety assessment ,
   predictive modeling , and optimization of pasteurization processes that aim
   to reduce failure costs due to recall incidents and the necessity for costly
   quality assurance control measures . by using ai to process , industries can
   customize the pasteurization temperature and duration of heat in order to
   sterilize harmful bacteria and pathogens while preserving nutrition . ai
   also means predictive modeling and in the long run that will help
   dramatically decrease energy by curbing food waste which affects operational
   costs and sustainability . the present paper aims to provide an overview of
   artificial intelligence concerning food pasteurization in terms of process
   optimization , monitoring and control , microbiological safety assessment ,
   and predictive modeling
DE artificial intelligence; microbial safety; monitoring and control;
   pasteurization; predictive modeling
ID accident prevention; artificial intelligence; food safety; optimization;
   quality assurance; quality control; food industries; microbial safety;
   microbiological safety; monitoring and control; overall effectiveness;
   overall efficiency; packaging process; pasteurization; predictive models;
   safety assessments; pasteurization

---

UT 1088
AR Maduka C, 2025, SIGNALS COMMUN TECHNOL, VPart F1039, P115, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-89537-1_11
TI A Study on Food Classification Using Convolutional Neural Network
AU Maduka C; Elias F; Ekpo S; Landa A; Bakare O; Omole R; Inyang A
TC 0
SO SIGNALS COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB understanding food classes and its numerous blends has been an interesting
   area of research as more people become more health conscious of not only how
   appetizing and savory a meal may appear to be , but also its nutritional
   content . with the advent of social media and ever increasing availability
   of data in this regard , there has been extensive research and sophisticated
   computational components , models , and methodologies developed to leverage
   this . this research paper is mostly driven to contribute to the wealth of
   knowledge already obtained in this area by looking to use pretrained models
   to reliably predict or label food images . it is research heavily reliant on
   comparing the performance of three models namely , alexnet , resnet18 , and
   vgg16 in food image classification . upon training , validating , and
   testing all three models , resnet18 ranked the topmost performing model
   based on an accuracy of aq1 approximately 88.4 % on unseen data while also
   achieving the least loss values which were based on the evaluation of ground
   truth labels as against the predicted labels
DE activation function; alexnet; convolutional neural network; food
   classification; food_11; loss function; resnet18; vgg16
ID convolutional neural networks; image classification; activation functions;
   alexnet; convolutional neural network; food classification; food image;
   food_11; loss functions; resnet18; three models; vgg16; convolution

---

UT 1089
AR Reddy EK, 2025, INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT, DOI
   10.1109/CONIT65521.2025.11166784
TI AI Based Food Freshness Tracking System with Shelf-Life Prediction
AU Reddy EK; Balaji TSP; Manivannan KK
TC 0
SO INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT
PY 2025
AB to predict food spoilage before visible signs of spoilage , this paper
   introduces the design , development , and testing of an artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) based food freshness monitoring system that combines
   machine learning , environmental sensing , and gas sensing . static
   expiration dates form the foundation of traditional food safety practice ,
   which has a tendency to result in eating spoiled food or premature disposal
   of fresh food . unlike binary classification , our system uses regression
   based machine learning models combined with multiple sensors to provide
   precise shelf life estimation . temperature , humidity , and gas emissions
   are three major spoilage indicators that can be monitored by a prototype
   combined on an arduino board . the system can also predict shelf life
   estimates of various types of foods with more than 90 % accuracy . unlike
   old fashioned expiration , user testing demonstrated a significant reduction
   in self reported food waste . this work is a contribution to the new field
   of ai based food safety monitoring and has implications for reducing food
   waste in home and commercial settings
DE ai in food safety; food freshness; food spoilage detection; gas sensing;
   iot; machine learning; shelf life prediction
ID chemical detection; food preservation; food safety; food waste; forecasting;
   machine learning; safety engineering; safety testing; shelf life; spoilage;
   artificial intelligence in food safety; food freshness; food spoilage; food
   spoilage detection; food waste; food safety; gas sensing; iot; machine
   learning; shelf life prediction; learning systems

---

UT 1090
AR Jha A, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P359, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00018-7
TI Advancements in computational fluid dynamics-aided artificial intelligence
   and machine learning in food processing
AU Jha A; Kalaiselvi K; Sai Nandhini R; Raj AS; Karthik P
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB maintaining food safety and quality at every stage of the agri food
   processing chain is among the most nonnegotiable , and complex goals for the
   food technologist . the food industry encompasses an extensive array of
   processes such as extraction , evaporation , mixing , drying , sterilization
   , ventilation , refrigeration , packaging and storage , etc . , which
   amalgamates various critical transport processes . experimental optimization
   of operational parameters is very critical but equally cumbersome . thus ,
   in recent years , computational fluid dynamics ( cfd ) and modeling
   techniques ( physics based , analytical , and statistical ) have created a
   niche in analyzing , predicting , and optimizing the performance of a wide
   range of food processing operations . also , considering the variety of unit
   operations , momentously large scale and localized challenges in agri food
   processing industry , a significant advancement in cfd coupled artificial
   intelligence and machine learning ( ai / ml ) based automation is needed .
   wherein , ai / ml framework can handle scale and speed issues , and cfd can
   provide reliable and meaningful data for ai / ml training . however , there
   is a dire need to enhance technical expertise to amalgamate both these
   frameworks . thus , the present chapter aims to sketch a meticulous outline
   of the fundamentals involved in developing a cfd solution , and the recent
   progression in ai / ml computing tools and integrating cfd ai on virtual
   platforms . also , elucidates the machine learning models such as artificial
   neural networks , quick learning models applied in the food industry as well
   as the limitations , challenges faced by users and future scope of cfd aided
   ai / ml in food processing
DE ai/ml; artificial intelligence; computational modeling; fluid-flow; heat and
   mass transport; virtual simulation
ID accident prevention; agri-food; computational methods; digital storage; food
   safety; food storage; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; mass transportation; processed foods; thermal processing ( foods
   ); transport properties; virtual reality; agri-food processing; artificial
   intelligence learning; computational fluid; computational modeling; fluid
   dynamics; fluid-flow; food industries; heat and mass transports; machine
   learning; virtual simulations; computational fluid dynamics; flow of fluids

---

UT 1091
AR Tripathi A, 2025, DETECT IDENTIF MONIT FOOD CONTAM, P239, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-3982-5.ch008
TI Classification of Environmental Microorganisms for Monitoring Water Quality
   for Food Safety Using Deep Learning
AU Tripathi A; Purohit K; Sinha P; Datta D; Acharya A
TC 0
SO DETECT IDENTIF MONIT FOOD CONTAM
PY 2025
AB water contamination poses a huge risk in both food production and
   consumption . to monitor water quality , environmental microbes ( ems ) can
   be used as they act as bioindicators . automating the detection of ems would
   be a highly time saving and vital procedure , particularly since early
   monitoring of environments can prevent large scale agricultural
   contamination . however , such automation remains underdeveloped for
   industrial use . hence , a series of comparison experiments were conducted
   on various deep learning models using the open source dataset emds 6 . the
   pipeline includes segmentation followed by classification using different
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) to achieve a fully automated system .
   given the limited dataset size , transfer learning , data augmentation , and
   k fold cross validation to mitigate overfitting and bias are employed . it
   was observed that deeper models like densenet121 achieve the highest
   accuracy ( 71.67 % ) , whereas lightweight architectures such as mobilenetv2
   strike a balance between accuracy and computational efficiency , making them
   well suited for resource constrained environments . finally , feature fusion
   is applied on the classifier models to assess potential improvements in
   accuracy which concatenates the feature representations from individual
   models . while fusion did not consistently outperform standalone models and
   often showed minimal or negative improvement , combining mobilenetv2 with
   other models improved performance in most cases . the fusion of xception and
   mobilenetv2 yielded an accuracy improvement of 1.90 % , while densenet121
   and mobilenetv2 achieved the highest overall accuracy ( 71.19 % ) among all
   combinations
ID automation; classification ( of information ); data accuracy; deep neural
   networks; environmental monitoring; food safety; microorganisms; open
   systems; transfer learning; water pollution; agricultural contamination;
   environmental microbes; food consumption; food production; food safety;
   industrial use; large-scales; monitoring water quality; production and
   consumption; water contamination; computational efficiency

---

UT 1092
AR Li Y/2, 2026, ENV INT, V212, DOI 10.1016/j.envint.2026.110294
TI Advancing environmental and food system monitoring with machine-learning-
   enhanced X-ray fluorescence analytics
AU Li Y/2; Jia W/1; Abia WA; Haughey SA; Carey M; McCreanor C; Mooney M;
   Croffie M; Daly K; Maestroni BM; Meharg C; Meharg AA; Elliott CT; Williams
   PN
TC 0
SO ENV INT
PY 2026
AB deficiencies of essential and excesses of toxic elements contribute to
   substantial , yet frequently underrecognized , global disease burden .
   energy dispersive ( ed ) x ray fluorescence ( xrf ) spectroscopy is widely
   used for rapid , multi elemental analysis . however , different instruments
   and xrf system configurations vary in performance , constrained by
   sensitivity , matrix effects and spectral interferences . presented here is
   a novel analytics solution . integrating across common xrf platforms ,
   sequences of systematic model building , and validation were performed with
   diverse machine learning algorithms . a total of 85 certified reference
   materials , including 20 soils and 65 food and biological samples , were
   used to provide a comparable validation framework . matrix specific limits
   of detection were calculated , and platform performance was assessed .
   hybrid calibration strategies using linear , partial least squares , and
   random forest enhanced xrf models , were developed to correct systematic
   biases . unlike approaches based on direct prediction from high dimensional
   spectra , this framework uses xrf derived concentrations as inputs and
   corrects residual deviations . machine learning assisted calibration
   improved measurement accuracy , particularly for handheld xrf . however , no
   single correction model was universally applicable . performance varied by
   element , matrix , and instrument . these results show that hybrid
   calibration improves the reliability of multi elemental xrf analysis and
   supports its application in environmental and food system monitoring
DE accuracy; certified reference materials; hybrid calibration framework;
   machine learning; multi-elemental measurement; x-ray fluorescence
ID biological materials; calibration; fluorescence; hybrid materials; least
   squares approximations; machine learning; random forests; reliability
   analysis; accuracy; certified reference materials; environmental systems;
   food system; hybrid calibration; hybrid calibration framework; machine
   learning; multi-elemental measurement; performance; x-ray fluorescence;
   learning systems

---

UT 1093
AR Natarajan S, 2025, FOOD METAVERSE WEB 30 ERA INTERSECTING FOOD TECHNOL CULT,
   P57, DOI 10.4018/979-8-3693-9025-2.ch004
TI Food quality optimization using artificial intelligence and machine learning
AU Natarajan S; Vijayakumar P
TC 1
SO FOOD METAVERSE WEB 30 ERA INTERSECTING FOOD TECHNOL CULT
PY 2025
AB one of the basic necessities of human beings to survive on the earth is food
   . nowadays , consuming nutritious food is challenging . the production of
   food and its consumption rate is increasing year by year . world health
   organization ( who ) estimates that around 9.2 billion metric tons of foods
   need to be produced annually as per 2024 population rate . on the other hand
   , 600 million people undergo food borne illness due to contamination due to
   pesticides . consumption of good quality food items remains a global concern
   . it is necessary to give importance to food safety measures during
   production and processing . integrating artificial intelligence and machine
   learning with food processing helps for better predict and optimize
   production to maintain safety and quality . these advanced technologies can
   detect toxic contents , microbial contamination , chemical residues , and
   allergens in real time , enabling preventive measures . the developed
   algorithms are becoming more sustainable , resilient , and provide safety
   for the end consumers

---

UT 1094
AR Wang T, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V163, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105134
TI Preparation, functional mechanism, and deep-learning application of food-
   derived xanthine oxidase-inhibitory peptides: A comprehensive review
AU Wang T; Wang D; Ren L; Dang L; Wang Z/4; Zhang G/1; Liu Z; Wang Y/2; Zhu
   F/1; Li X/8; Jiang Y; Li J/8; Li T/2; Cui F
TC 11
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : hyperuricemia ( hua ) is a metabolic disorder characterized by
   elevated serum uric acid ( sua ) levels ( > 7.0 mg / dl in men and > 6.0 mg
   / dl in women ) . hua has become a global health concern and is strongly
   associated with various chronic diseases . in recent years , food derived
   xanthine oxidase ( xod ) -inhibitory peptides have gained significant
   attention due to their safety , nutritional value , and potent biological
   activity . food derived xod inhibitory peptides represent promising
   alternatives for hua management . scope and approach : this review provides
   an overview of the sources , conventional , and emerging preparation methods
   of xod inhibitory peptides . the structure activity relationship and
   mechanisms of xod inhibitory peptides were comprehensively summarized .
   additionally , the application of deep learning was evaluated . key findings
   and conclusions : food derived ( including plants and animals ) xod
   inhibitory peptides are mainly prepared by two methods : conventional
   methods , such as enzymatic hydrolysis , chemical synthesis , and microbial
   fermentation . and emerging technologies , such as bioinformatics , phage
   display , and artificial intelligence . in the optimization of peptides
   based on the structure activity relationship , the xod inhibitory activity
   was significantly enhanced . food derived xod inhibitory peptides may
   regulate ua metabolism by inhibiting xod activity , promoting ua excretion ,
   maintaining intestinal homeostasis , and reducing inflammation . furthermore
   , deep learning models can more accurately predict peptide xod interactions
   , thereby accelerating the discovery and optimization of novel xod
   inhibitory peptides . considering their safety and therapeutic potential ,
   xod inhibitory peptides hold significant potential as supplements for hua
   management
DE emerging technologies; hua; mechanism; structure-activity relationship; xod-
   inhibitory peptide
ID emerging technologies; functional mechanisms; hyperuricemia; inhibitory
   peptides; metabolic disorders; optimizations; structure-activity
   relationships; uric acids; xanthine oxidase; xanthine oxidase-inhibitory
   peptide

---

UT 1095
AR Dalakleidi KV, 2026, ADV FOOD NUTR RES, V118, P89, DOI
   10.1016/bs.afnr.2025.11.005
TI Utilizing artificial intelligence to enhance sustainable high-quality food
   production: Current state, challenges, and future directions
AU Dalakleidi KV; Pemaj V; Kapolos J; Drosinos EH; Papadimitriou K
TC 1
SO ADV FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2026
AB food science today has undergone a profound change with the increasing
   impact of analyzing heterogeneous multimodal data with artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) . the adoption of ubiquitous sensors , cameras , and
   mobile apps in agriculture , food production , food processing ,
   transportation , and personal nutrition monitoring can record vast
   multimodal data , such as tabular , image , text , omics , sensors , social
   media , transactions and trade data . the analysis of such multimodal data
   is usually achieved by ai based food science and nutrition systems ( aifns )
   through the following pipeline : data preprocessing , segmentation ,
   dimensionality reduction , classification , or clustering . when multiple
   data sources are available for the same prediction task , data fusion
   strategies can also be employed . to ensure that this new generation of
   intelligent systems for food science and nutrition can better serve both
   industry and society , further research is needed to ensure that they
   operate ethically , transparently , inclusively , and safely across borders
DE artificial intelligence; artificial intelligence based food science and
   nutrition systems; classification; data fusion; data preprocessing; data
   security; explainability; multi-modal data analysis; segmentation
ID artificial intelligence; food technology; humans; artificial intelligence;
   food handling; human

---

UT 1096
AR Nayeri N, 2026, HEAL PLACE, V100, DOI 10.1016/j.healthplace.2026.103685
TI Methods for investigating online food environments with artificial
   intelligence: a systematic review
AU Nayeri N; Schwarz A; Keeble M; Fensel A; Thornton L; Poelman MP
TC 0
SO HEAL PLACE
PY 2026
AB background : the online food environment has transformed how individuals
   access and engage with food by amplifying food availability and promotions .
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) offers scalable solutions to investigate and
   monitor this space , yet its application across food environment dimensions
   has not been systematically reviewed . objective : this systematic review
   examined how ai methods have been applied to assess key online food
   environment dimensions , including food availability , marketing , price ,
   and nutritional properties . methods : we conducted a systematic review ,
   searching scopus , web of science , pubmed , and abi / inform in 2024 .
   eligible studies were english language and applied ai to assess online food
   environment platforms . titles and abstracts were screened using an ai based
   tool ( asreview ) and manual review , followed by full text screening . we
   assessed food environment setting and dimension , ai method , subfield ,
   algorithm and study quality . results : in total , 19 studies applied
   different ai methods , mainly supervised learning , natural language
   processing ( nlp ) , and computer vision across multiple platforms . food
   availability was most frequently assessed , followed by nutritional
   properties and marketing . fewer studies addressed pricing or individual
   exposure . applications included food and outlet classification , caloric
   estimation , and consumer engagement analysis . rule based nlp enabled large
   scale data collection . conclusions : ai is increasingly applied to analyze
   the online food environment , particularly food availability , marketing ,
   and nutrition . research remains fragmented across platforms and regions ,
   with limited comparative evaluations and standardization . to improve
   scalability and impact , future efforts should prioritize fair compliant (
   findable , accessible , interoperable , and reusable ) infrastructure ,
   semantic data integration , multimodal transfer learning , and better
   alignment with public policy goals . 2026 published by elsevier ltd .
DE artificial intelligence; digital food environment; food availability; food
   marketing; meal delivery; online food environment; social media

---

UT 1097
AR Pimenidis E, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2582 CCIS, P31, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-96199-1_3
TI Artificial Intelligence Versus Food Wastage in Bakeries
AU Pimenidis E; Abdelrahman Y; Psathas AP
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB time series forecasting for sales is well established in the business world
   . however , the nature of the data and often the domain area of the
   application can yield unexpected inconsistencies and constraints . machine
   learning tools can be utilized to enhance the accuracy of predictions and
   support effective forecasting . this work presents the case of a small chain
   of bakeries where machine learning supported forecasting aims to tackle food
   wastage , enhance profit margins , and contribute to a more sustainable
   community
DE bakeries; food wastage; machine learning; sales forecasting; sustainability;
   time series forecasting
ID forecasting; learning systems; machine learning; time series; food wastages;
   learning tool; machine learning; profit margin; sales forecasting;
   sustainable communities; time series forecasting; sustainable development

---

UT 1098
AR Tomes A, 2025, DATA POLIC, V7, DOI 10.1017/dap.2025.10013
TI Assessing the utility of machine learning for predicting food sufficiency: A
   case study in Malawi
AU Tomes A; Gholami S; Alia D; Hennessy C; Xu D/1; Bitz C; Dodhia R; Lavista
   Ferres J; Anderson CL
TC 0
SO DATA POLIC
PY 2025
AB this study explores the potential of applying machine learning ( ml )
   methods to identify and predict areas at risk of food insufficiency using a
   parsimonious set of publicly available data sources . we combine household
   survey data that captures monthly reported food insufficiency with remotely
   sensed measures of factors influencing crop production and maize price
   observations at the census enumeration area ( ea ) in malawi . we consider
   three machine learning models of different levels of complexity suitable for
   tabular data ( tabnet , random forests , and lasso ) and classical logistic
   regression and examine their performance against the historical occurrence
   of food insufficiency . we find that the models achieve similar accuracy
   levels with differential performance in terms of precision and recall . the
   shapley additive explanation decomposition applied to the models reveals
   that price information is the leading contributor to model fits . a possible
   explanation for the accuracy of simple predictors is the high spatiotemporal
   path dependency in our dataset , as the same areas of the country are
   repeatedly affected by food crises . recurrent events suggest that immediate
   and longer term responses to food crises , rather than predicting them , may
   be the bigger challenge , particularly in low resource settings .
   nonetheless , ml methods could be useful in filling important data gaps in
   food crises prediction , if followed by measures to strengthen food systems
   affected by climate change . hence , we discuss the tradeoffs in training
   these models and their use by policymakers and practitioners
DE crop prices; food insufficiency; machine learning; malawi; remote sensing

---

UT 1099
AR Xiao Y, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V493, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.145932
TI Deep learning-based regression of food quality attributes using near-
   infrared spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging: A review
AU Xiao Y; Zhou L/2; Zhao Y/2; Qi H; Pu Y; Zhang C/3
TC 15
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) are two
   popular non destructive tools for food quality and safety inspection . for
   food quality attributes quantification , the key is to develop regression
   models to link the features ( spectral , spatial and their fusion ) and the
   quality attributes . in addition to conventional machine learning methods ,
   deep learning based regression has proved to be a promising and advantageous
   approach to quantify the quality attributes . this review presents a
   comprehensive summary of recent advances in applying deep learning
   algorithms for quantifying food quality attributes using nir spectroscopy
   and hsi . deep learning regression algorithms are briefly introduced and
   compared with conventional data analysis strategies for regression .
   furthermore , the strategies that help to fully reveal the advantages of
   deep learning are highlighted . the challenges and future perspectives are
   also discussed . this review provides a comprehensive understanding of the
   application of deep learning in food quality attribute quantification
DE data augmentation; deep learning for spectral data analysis; near infrared
   spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging regression models; nondestructive
   food quality prediction; spectral feature extraction; transfer learning
ID deep learning; food quality; hyperspectral imaging; regression analysis;
   spectroscopy near infrared; data reduction; deep learning; feature
   extraction; food safety; hyperspectral imaging; information analysis;
   learning algorithms; learning systems; near infrared spectroscopy; quality
   control; regression analysis; spectrum analysis; data augmentation; deep
   learning for spectral data analyze; food quality prediction; hyperspectral;
   infrared spectroscopy; near infrared; near infrared; near infrared
   spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging regression model; nondestructive;
   nondestructive food quality prediction; regression modeling; spectral data
   analysis; spectral feature extraction; transfer learning; algorithm; data
   analysis; deep learning; feature extraction; food quality; hyperspectral
   imaging; infrared radiation; learning algorithm; machine learning; near
   infrared spectroscopy; nonhuman; prediction; regression model; review;
   spectroscopy; therapy; transfer of learning; near infrared spectroscopy;
   procedures; regression analysis; infrared devices

---

UT 1100
AR Alturif G, 2025, SUSTAIN FOOD SYST, V9, DOI 10.3389/fsufs.2025.1615998
TI Applying 1D convolutional neural networks to advance food security in
   support of SDG 2
AU Alturif G; El-Bary AA; Osman RA
TC 1
SO SUSTAIN FOOD SYST
PY 2025
AB purpose : the goal of this study is to predict how well five countries the
   us , saudi arabia , china , egypt , and sweden will do in terms of
   sustainable development goal 2 ( sdg 2 ) , particularly the hunger index
   scores , between 2025 and 2030 . methods : historical agricultural ,
   nutritional , and socioeconomic data from 2000 to 2022 were analyzes and
   temporal patterns were extracted using a one dimensional convolutional
   neural network ( 1d cnn ) . to guarantee precise and believable predictions
   , the model was trained and verified using historical data . to represent
   realistic development trajectories toward sdg 2 targets , forecasts were
   limited to a range of 0 to 100. results : by identifying minor temporal
   trends in line with patterns of world development , the 1d cnn model showed
   great accuracy in forecasting changes in hunger index scores . the
   predictions point to possible advancements in the nations under study in
   terms of lowering hunger and enhancing food security . conclusions :
   policymakers , international organizations , and sustainability advocates
   may all benefit from the insightful data that the suggested forecasting
   technique offers . these forecasts encourage more focused initiatives and
   efficient use of resources , which will eventually speed up efforts to meet
   sdg 2 ( zero hunger )
DE deep learning; one-dimensional convolutional neural network; sdg2 ( zero
   hunger ); sdgs index score; sustainable development goals ( sdgs )

---

UT 1101
AR Sasikala M, 2025, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL SIGNAL PROCESS AISP, DOI
   10.1109/AISP68263.2025.11396318
TI Prediction of Revisit Intention in Organic Food Retail Using Machine
   Learning: Sensory and Behavioral Feature Analysis
AU Sasikala M; Shobhana N
TC 0
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL SIGNAL PROCESS AISP
PY 2025
AB this study examines how revisit intentions in organic food retail can be
   predicted through machine learning , emphasizing sensory and behavioral
   factors . using data from 1,700 consumers , prior shopping experience
   emerged as the strongest predictor ( correlation : 0.25 ) , followed by
   sensory cues like visual ( 0.14 ) and scent appeal ( 0.08 ) . income and
   education also significantly affected revisit intentions ( p = 0.0022 and
   0.0205 ) , with younger , female , and higher income consumers showing
   greater intent to return . logistic regression outperformed other models ,
   achieving 67 % accuracy and roc auc scores of 0.68 and 0.66. these
   predictive insights can support targeted marketing strategies and help
   reduce missed return visits by 15-20 % . practically , the findings
   highlight the value of enhancing sensory appeal , service quality , and
   customer centric experiences . nonetheless , the study s regional scope and
   data imbalance present limitations , underscoring the need for broader
   validation and refinement in future research
DE behavioral drivers; machine learning; organic retail; revisit intention;
   sensory marketing
ID behavioral research; commerce; logistic regression; machine learning; sales;
   sensory analysis; behavioral driver; behavioral factors; behavioral
   features; feature analysis; machine learning; organic foods; organic retail;
   organics; revisit intention; sensory marketing; learning systems

---

UT 1102
AR Zhou X/1, 2025, FOOD MACH, V41, P235, DOI
   10.13652/j.spjx.1003.5788.2025.80128
TI Advances in the application of machine learning to food nutrition and
   health; [机 器 学 习 在 食 品 营 养 与 健 康 研 究 中 的 应 用]
AU Zhou X/1; Li D/1
TC 0
SO FOOD MACH
PY 2025
AB a balanced diet is fundamental to maintaining human health and preventing or
   reducing the risk of chronic non communicable diseases . efficient and
   accurate analysis of nutritional and functional components in food ,
   followed by the provision of personalized nutritional guidance , is a
   research hotspot in the field of food nutrition and health . this article
   reviews the research progress on artificial intelligence technologies , such
   as machine learning , in the analysis of food nutritional components ,
   functional component analysis and screening , and personalized nutrition ,
   and highlights the pressing issues that need to be addressed in this field .
   2025 editorial department of food and machinery , shipin yu jixie
DE deep learning; food nutrition; machine learning; personalized nutrition

---

UT 1103
AR Calix DAG, 2025, INT MULTITOPIC CONF INMIC, DOI
   10.1109/INMIC65900.2025.11348462
TI Toward Personalized Nutrition: Deep Learning for Food Recognition and
   Calorie Prediction
AU Calix DAG; Hamid MM; Ali RH; Syed UR
TC 0
SO INT MULTITOPIC CONF INMIC
PY 2025
AB accurate food recognition and calorie estimation are essential for dietary
   monitoring , healthcare , and personalized nutrition , yet existing systems
   often lack cultural inclusivity , portion awareness , and deployability .
   this study proposes a deep learning framework integrating yolov8 for food
   detection , efficientnet b3 for classification , and usda based regression
   for calorie estimation . using the food 101 dataset , reformatted for yolo
   training , the model was trained with data augmentation and evaluated on
   multiple metrics , including mean average precision ( map ) , f1-score , and
   mean absolute error ( mae ) . the yolov8 detector achieved 76.7 % map@0.5 ,
   surpassing the 75 % practical benchmark , while efficientnet b3 fine tuned
   with imagenet pretraining improved classification accuracy by 19.5 %
   compared to training from scratch . calorie estimation achieved an mae of
   48.2 kcal , with usda integration reducing error by 14.3 % relative to
   vision only baselines . robustness tests under occlusion and lighting
   variations revealed less than 8 % map drop , confirming resilience to real
   world noise . however , cross dataset validation on uecfood100 revealed a
   12.6 % accuracy gap for asian cuisines , highlighting the cultural bias of
   western centric datasets . by unifying detection , classification , and
   nutrition regression , this work contributes a scalable , bias aware , and
   partially portion sensitive solution for ai driven dietary monitoring .
   future directions include depth based volume estimation and mobile
   optimization for real world deployment
DE calorie estimation; deep learning; efficientnet; food recognition; nutrition
   ai; volume estimation; yolov8
ID classification ( of information ); forecasting; nutrition; calorie
   estimations; deep learning; deployability; efficientnet; existing systems;
   food recognition; mean absolute error; nutrition ai; volume estimations;
   yolov8; deep learning

---

UT 1104
AR Goswami D, 2026, ENG MATER, VPart F1932, P103, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-95-8353-9_6
TI Machine Learning Innovations in Food Packaging: Enhancing Safety and
   Sustainability
AU Goswami D; Arya H; Mumtaz A; Negi K; Mandoli SD
TC 0
SO ENG MATER
PY 2026
AB machine learning has made a significant impact on the food packaging
   industry by predicting the spoilage of food and monitoring the food items .
   this chapter involves the use of ai and machine learning techniques and its
   evolution leading to sustainable development of packaging materials
   resulting in reducing carbon footprint . smart and intelligent packaging has
   also made the machine learning incorporation easy and provides better tools
   and techniques which benefits the food packaging industry . it uses
   techniques such as biosensors , iot based sensors , rfid tags , barcodes and
   bioplastic to make the food free from contaminants which are capable of
   causing food borne disease by analyzing change in ph , moisture , gasses ,
   etc . ml packaging materials are the alternative of plastic based packaging
   . leading companies like coca cola uses machine learning in food packaging
   process and have solved various problems that other companies might be
   growing through . future research should focus upon personalized packaging ,
   insuring more safety of consumers privacy
DE bioplastic; iot-based sensors; machine learning; rfid tags; sustainable
   packaging
ID chemical contamination; food safety; machine learning; packaging; packaging
   machines; packaging materials; sustainable development; bio-plastics; food
   packaging; food packaging industry; intelligent packaging; iot-based sensor;
   machine learning techniques; machine learning; rfid-tag; smart packaging;
   sustainable packaging; learning systems

---

UT 1105
AR Rojas C, 2025, CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST, V261, DOI
   10.1016/j.chemolab.2025.105380
TI ChemTastesPredictor: An ensemble of machine learning classifiers to predict
   the taste of molecular tastants
AU Rojas C; Abril-González M; Ballabio D; García F
TC 4
SO CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST
PY 2025
AB the sense of taste plays a critical role in food science , since it directly
   impacts food consumption , human nutrition , and overall health .
   computational models that predict the taste of molecular tastants based on
   their chemical structure and machine learning classifiers serve as powerful
   tools in the advancing field of foodinformatics . this study describes the
   development of chemtastespredictor designed to predict the taste of 4075
   molecular tastants included in the extended version of chemtastesdb . to the
   best of our knowledge , this represents the largest dataset with a broad
   based chemical space used to calibrate machine learning ( ml ) models for
   taste prediction based on molecular descriptors and fingerprints . for
   validation , datasets were randomly split into training and test sets in a
   75:25 ratio , ensuring balanced class distributions . in binary
   classification tasks , the random forest classifier demonstrated the highest
   predictive performance for sweet / bitter ( ner = 0.928 and f score = 0.927
   ) and bitter / non bitter ( ner = 0.902 and f score = 0.903 ) classification
   . adaptive boosting excelled in the prediction of sweet / non sweet ( ner =
   0.861 and f score = 0.862 ) . the n nearest neighbors classifier emerged as
   the optimal classifier for umami / non umami ( ner = 0.957 and f score =
   0.860 ) and sweet / bitter / umami ( ner = 0.870 and f score = 0.843 ) .
   these models may be useful in the development and analysis of new chemical
   tastants
DE chemtastesdb; chemtastespredictor; machine learning classifiers; molecular
   tastant; qspr
ID chemtastesdb; chemtastespredictor; f-score; food consumption; food science;
   learning classifiers; machine learning classifier; machine learning;
   molecular tastant; qspr; article; binary classification; bitter taste;
   chemical structure; classifier; computer model; controlled study; food
   intake; human; machine learning; prediction; quantitative structure property
   relation; random forest; taste; umami; contrastive learning

---

UT 1106
AR Krawczyk P, 2025, PROC ICE IEEE/ITMC CONF ENG TECHNOL INNOV AI-DRIVEN IND
   TRANSFORM DIGIT LEADERSH TECHNOL ENG INNOV ENTREP ICE, DOI
   10.1109/ICE/ITMC65658.2025.11106620
TI Towards Conceptual Framework for Analysing the Impact of Artificial
   Intelligence on Fresh-Food-Produce Wholesalers' Transport Logistics
   Performance
AU Krawczyk P; Ribera M; Montero H
TC 0
SO PROC ICE IEEE/ITMC CONF ENG TECHNOL INNOV AI-DRIVEN IND TRANSFORM DIGIT
   LEADERSH TECHNOL ENG INNOV ENTREP ICE
PY 2025
AB ai applications in transport logistics , particularly within fresh food
   produce wholesale , optimize processes such as route planning , freight
   management , and real time tracking . however , research on ai s impact on
   fresh food produce wholesale transport logistics , especially in france ,
   remains underexplored . this study addresses the gap by investigating key
   factors that influence ai enhanced fresh food produce wholesalers transport
   logistics performance through a qualitative survey among a relevant target
   group of french professionals . the contribution of this research is twofold
   . first , the authors provide an overview of the current state of ai and its
   application in fresh food produce wholesale transport logistics within the
   french context . second , the authors present a conceptual framework that
   emerges from their primary qualitative data analysis results , illustrating
   the relationships between higher level constructs presented by j . c . perez
   mesa , l . piedra munoz , m . c . garcia barranco , and c . giagnocavo ,
   including production quality health programming , production sustainability
   programming , transport quality health , and transport sustainability which
   in turn could be linked to lower level constructs with ai enhancement
   potential identified in this study . the resulting concepts with ai
   enhancement potential are : forecasting demands , services quality of
   transport , certification quality , communication , environmental
   responsibility , social responsibility , groupage transport , product
   classification and routes improvement . in future research , the proposed
   hypothesized relationships could be statistically tested based on a large
   enough dataset to establish the reliability and validity of the resulting
   framework , ideally within and beyond france
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); fresh food; performance optimization;
   transport; wholesaler logistics
ID artificial intelligence; freight transportation; large datasets; logistics;
   social aspects; sustainable development; artificial intelligence; conceptual
   frameworks; fresh food; fresh food produces; logistic performance;
   performance optimizations; route planning; transport; transport logistics;
   wholesaler logistic; transportation routes

---

UT 1107
AR Burke DT, 2025, FOOD QUAL PREFER, V126, DOI 10.1016/j.foodqual.2024.105417
TI Identification and profiling of socioeconomic and health characteristics
   associated with consumer food purchasing behaviours using machine learning
AU Burke DT; Boudou M; McCarthy J; Bahramian M; Krah C; Kenny C; Hynds P;
   Priyadarshini A
TC 5
SO FOOD QUAL PREFER
PY 2025
AB food systems and food related policies influence food consumption , dietary
   patterns , and human and environmental health . consumers play a vital role
   in enhancing health and sustainability through their purchasing choices . to
   identify and cluster food purchasing behaviors and map relationships , a
   cross sectional survey was conducted across ireland with a sample size of
   957 adults . two step cluster analysis , generalized linear models , and
   recursive partitioning and regression trees were used to elucidate adherence
   to identified food purchasing behavioral clusters . three clusters ( food
   quality , taste , and price ) were identified based on food purchasing
   priorities and statistically categorized . food quality members were
   significantly less likely categorically obese ( or = 0.32 ) and more likely
   to have a postgraduate degree ( or = 1.591.76 ) . taste members were almost
   twice as likely to be classified as obese ( or = 1.96 ) , have / had
   diabetes ( or = 2.24 ) , and have secondary level education as their highest
   level of attainment ( or = 1.73 ) . price members had the highest mean body
   mass index ( 28.03 kg / m2 ) , were more likely younger ( 2534 years ) ( or
   = 1.43 ) and were more likely to have lower annual household income ( <
   24,999 ) ( or = 1.89 ) . machine learning models demonstrated an
   increasingly efficacious fit for predicting adherence to food quality
   membership ( area under the curve = 0.72 ) , with education , body mass
   index , meat / seafood purchase location , food retailer distance , and
   dietary pattern identified as major predictors . findings emphasize the need
   for tailored , evidence based policies to modify physical environments ,
   improve economic conditions , and enhance consumer awareness to promote
   diets balancing nutritional quality and sustainability
DE consumer behavior; dietary patterns; food purchase behviour; generalized
   linear model ( glm ); machine learning; two-step cluster analysis

---

UT 1108
AR Hazarika C, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P701,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00028-X
TI Emerging scope of artificial intelligence in food quality control and demand
   forecasting for optimizing sales and reducing food waste
AU Hazarika C; Bagchi Banerjee B; Banerjee A/1; Janghu S
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is increasingly being integrated across
   various industries , including the food sector , although its adoption here
   has been slower than in others . the focus on food quality has heightened ,
   particularly following the covid 19 pandemic , emphasizing the importance of
   maintaining strict standards throughout the food processing chain . this
   chapter highlights ai s role at critical points of quality control in the
   production line , such as raw material assessments , processing , final
   product inspections , and packaging , with an emphasis on ai s potential to
   ensure compliance with quality benchmarks . ai s applications in food
   quality maintenance include the use of machine learning and computer vision
   for automated quality checks of raw materials , real time monitoring during
   processing , and consistent evaluations of finished products to detect
   anomalies . furthermore , ai driven insights can enhance packaging integrity
   by identifying defects and predicting shelf life , thus supporting a more
   efficient and reliable production system . as the food industry continues to
   embrace ai innovations , these advancements promise to transform quality
   control processes , ensuring improved safety , compliance , and operational
   efficiency worldwide . focusing on quality rather than quantity in
   production enhances overall product performance . here , ai plays a crucial
   role by accurately assessing demand to meet the right quantity of food
   products needed , minimizing waste while ensuring quality . food waste ,
   costing over $ 1 trillion yearly , significantly impacts both global hunger
   and environmental sustainability , with unep reporting 1.05 billion tons of
   food wasted in 2022 alone . ai driven demand forecasting offers a solution
   by addressing food industry complexities in data temporality , output
   measures , and predictive variables , crucial for managing perishable items
   . advanced algorithms like random forest and long short term memory ( lstm )
   improve forecasting accuracy , reducing waste by up to 52 % and unmet demand
   by 16 % . as generative ai and large language models evolve , they can
   refine demand predictions , minimizing waste and enhancing efficiency ,
   profitability , and sustainability in the food sector
DE artificial intelligence; covid; demand; food; forecasting; quality
ID benchmarking; costs; food industry; food processing; food products; food
   safety; food waste; learning systems; packaging materials; process control;
   raw materials; sustainable development; covid; demand; demand forecasting;
   food industries; food quality; food quality controls; food sector; food
   waste; quality; quality demands; forecasting; image quality

---

UT 1109
AR Connelly J, 2026, PROC NUTR SOC, DOI 10.1017/S0029665125102097
TI The role of Technology and machine learning to monitor diet in older adults;
   learning lessons to develop a new prototype
AU Connelly J; Whittaker AC
TC 0
SO PROC NUTR SOC
PY 2026
AB positive food consumption remains one of the most common challenges among
   older adults in the uk with at least 10 % in community settings and up to 45
   % in care homes affected by malnutrition . it is strongly associated with
   frailty , functional and health decline . tracking and understanding the
   impact of diet is not easy . there are problems with monitoring diet and
   malnutrition screening such as difficulty remembering , lack of time , or
   needing a dietician to interpret the results . computerized tailored
   education may be a positive solution to these issues . due to the rise in
   smartphone ownership the use of technology to monitor diet is becoming more
   popular . this review paper will aim to look at the issues with current
   methods of dietary monitoring particularly in older adults , it will present
   the benefits and barriers of using to monitor food intake . it will discuss
   how a photo food monitoring app was developed to address the current issues
   with technology and how it was tested with older adults living in community
   and care settings . the prototype was co developed and incorporated
   automated food classification to monitor dietary intake and food preferences
   and tested with older adults . the prototype was usable to both older adults
   and care workers and feedback on how to improve its use was collected . key
   design improvements to make it quicker and more accurate were suggested for
   future testing in this population . with adaptions this prototype could be
   beneficial to older adults living in both community and care settings . the
   authors 2026 . published by cambridge university press on behalf of the
   nutrition society .
DE dietary monitoring; digital technology; machine learning; older adults

---

UT 1110
AR Li L/2, 2025, INTERN J ENG BUS MANAG, V17, DOI 10.1177/18479790251375827
TI Predicting purchase intentions in online food delivery using deep learning
   and AIDA model: Insights from sentiment analysis of user reviews
AU Li L/2; Choo WC; Leong YC; Law KA; Hossain MS/1
TC 2
SO INTERN J ENG BUS MANAG
PY 2025
AB this study investigates how customer sentiments and engagement stages , as
   conceptualized by the aida ( awareness , interest , desire , action ) model
   , influence purchase intention in the context of online food delivery
   services . leveraging over 1.5 million english language reviews from uber
   eats and doordash collected via the google play store , we developed a
   robust machine learning pipeline to classify sentiments , detect aida stage
   keywords , and predict purchase intention using deep learning models . a
   sequential neural network and a bidirectional lstm model with pre trained
   glove embeddings were trained on processed review text to predict purchase
   intentions , achieving high accuracy across both datasets ( uber eats :
   94.69 % , doordash : 95.87 % ) . regression analyzes using ordinary least
   squares ( ols ) further validated the predictive power of aida stages and
   sentiment , yielding r squared values of 0.947 for uber eats and 0.915 for
   doordash . all aida stages and sentiment showed statistically significant
   positive effects on purchase intention . variance inflation factor ( vif )
   analysis confirmed the absence of multicollinearity , reinforcing the
   reliability of the findings . this integrated framework offers valuable
   insights for digital platform operators and marketers by demonstrating how
   user generated content can be harnessed to understand and influence consumer
   behavior in service ecosystems
DE aida model; consumer behavior; deep learning; online food delivery; purchase
   intention; sentiment analysis

---

UT 1111
AR Song Z, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V160, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104982
TI Application of computer vision techniques to fermented foods: An overview
AU Song Z; Li Y/1; Zhao H; Liu X/3; Ding H/3; Ding Q; Ma D; Liu S/5; Mao J
TC 11
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : fermented foods are products processed through microbial
   fermentation and are widely appreciated by consumers around the world for
   their unique flavors . with advancements in industrial technology and
   increasing consumer demand , modern techniques are being progressively
   integrated into the production and quality control of fermented foods to
   enhance production efficiency and product quality . among these innovations
   , computer vision technology stands out as particularly impactful . scope
   and approach : this paper provides an overview of the applications of
   computer vision in the field of fermented foods , focusing on its technical
   algorithms and applications within the food industry . it outlines the
   specific uses of computer vision technology across different types of
   fermented foods and discusses the relevant techniques employed . finally ,
   this review highlights the transformative potential of adaptive learning and
   multimodal fusion in addressing current limitations of computer vision for
   fermented food monitoring . key findings and conclusions : the adoption of
   computer vision technology has significantly improved both the efficiency
   and accuracy of quality control processes in fermented food production .
   through non contact real time monitoring , researchers can quickly identify
   the dynamic changes in microorganisms and related parameter indicators
   during fermentation and evaluate their impact on food quality . these
   technologies have not only boosted the efficiency of fermented food
   production but have also enhanced control over product flavor and safety
   assessments . despite ongoing challenges in technology implementation and
   data analysis , the continuous advancements in deep learning and image
   processing technologies are expected to increase the impact of computer
   vision in the field of fermented foods , driving sustainable industry
   development
DE computer vision; fermented foods; food quality evaluation; machine learning;
   nondestructive testing
ID food chemistry; computer vision techniques; computer vision technology;
   fermented foods; food production; food quality; food quality evaluation;
   machine learning; microbial fermentation; nondestructive; quality
   evaluation; food ingredients

---

UT 1112
AR Bi Y, 2026, CHIN TRAD HERB DRUGS, V57, P1402, DOI
   10.7501/j.issn.0253-2670.2026.04.018
TI Formulation patterns and primary health functions of Mori Fructus-containing
   health foods based on data mining and network pharmacology;
   [基于数据挖掘和网络药理学的桑椹保健食品组方规律及主要保健功能研究]
AU Bi Y; Li Q/2; Zhang Y; Wu T; Ouyang D/1
TC 0
SO CHIN TRAD HERB DRUGS
PY 2026
AB objective to analyze the formulation patterns of health foods containing
   sangshen ( mori fructus ) and investigate their potential mechanisms using
   data mining , network pharmacology , and molecular docking techniques .
   methods information on mori fructus related health foods up to september 13
   , 2025 , was collected from the special food information query platform of
   the state administration for market regulation and yaozhi . com .
   formulation patterns were analyzed using frequency statistics , cluster
   analysis , and association rule analysis . active ingredients of mori
   fructus were retrieved from databases such as the traditional chinese
   medicine systems pharmacology database and analysis platform ( tcmsp ) .
   potential targets were predicted using swisstargetprediction , while disease
   targets related to primary health functions were retrieved from databases
   like genecards database . target gene names were standardized using the
   uniprot database . potential targets were screened using venny and string
   databases . protein protein interaction ( ppi ) network analysis was then
   performed , and core targets were screened based on degree values . gene
   ontology ( go ) and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes ( kegg ) pathway
   enrichment analyzes were conducted using the david database . finally ,
   molecular docking was employed to validate the binding affinity between core
   targets and key components . results a total of 243 mori fructus containing
   health foods meeting the inclusion criteria were included , involving 177
   traditional chinese medicine ingredients , primarily heat clearing drugs and
   tonifying deficiency drugs . the medicinal properties were mainly warm and
   neutral . the medicinal flavor was predominantly sweet . the meridians
   entered the lung , heart , and liver channels . the most common dosage form
   was capsules . the top two health functions were helping to enhance immunity
   and helping to alleviate physical fatigue . for immunity enhancement , 453
   potential targets and 10 core targets were identified . for alleviating
   physical fatigue , 166 potential targets and 10 core targets were identified
   . mori fructus exerts its effects on enhancing immunity and alleviating
   physical fatigue through signaling pathways such as the tnf signaling
   pathway and the lipid and atherosclerosis pathway . molecular docking
   results indicated that the key components of mori fructus could
   spontaneously and stably bind to the core targets . conclusion this study ,
   utilizing data mining , network pharmacology , and molecular docking ,
   analyzed information related to mori fructus containing health foods and
   preliminarily revealed the potential targets and mechanistic pathways
   associated with the main health functions of mori fructus , providing a
   theoretical basis for the subsequent development of mori fructus based
   products . 2026 , editorial office of chinese traditional and herbal drugs
DE alleviation of physical fatigue; data mining; formulation pattern; health
   food; immunity enhancement; mori fructus; network pharmacology
ID herbaceous agent; lipid; article; atherosclerosis; binding affinity; body
   meridian; chinese medicine; cluster analysis; data base; data mining;
   fatigue; flavor; fruit; gene ontology; health food; heart; herbal medicine;
   immunity; liver; lung; microcapsule; molecular docking; mori fructus;
   network analysis; nonhuman; pathway enrichment analysis; protein protein
   interaction; signal transduction; systems pharmacology; tnf signaling

---

UT 1113
AR Taneepanichskul N, 2025, UCL OPEN ENV, V7, DOI 10.14324/111.444/ucloe.3237
TI Using hyperspectral imaging and machine learning to identify food-
   contaminated compostable and recyclable plastics
AU Taneepanichskul N; Hailes HC; Miodownik M
TC 10
SO UCL OPEN ENV
PY 2025
AB with the increasing public legislation aimed at reducing plastic pollution ,
   compostable plastics have emerged as an alternative to conventional plastics
   for some food packaging and food service items . however , the true value of
   compostable plastics can only be realized if they do not enter the
   environment as contaminants but instead are processed along with food waste
   using industrial composting facilities . distinguishing compostable plastics
   from other plastics in this waste stream is an outstanding problem .
   currently , near infrared technology is widely used to identify polymers ,
   but it falls short in distinguishing plastics contaminated with food waste .
   this study investigates the application of hyperspectral imaging to address
   this challenge , enhancing the detection and sorting of contaminated
   compostable plastics . by combining hyperspectral imaging with various
   machine learning algorithms we show it is possible to accurately identify
   and classify plastic packaging with food waste contamination , achieving up
   to 99 % accuracy . the study also measures the impact of plastic features
   such as darkness , size and level of contamination on model performance ,
   with darkness having the most significant impact . the developed machine
   learning model can detect plastic with higher levels of contamination more
   accurately compared to our previous study . implementing hyperspectral
   imaging in waste management systems can significantly increase composting
   and recycling rates , and improve the quality of recycled products . this
   advanced approach supports the circular economy by ensuring that both
   compostable and recyclable plastics are effectively processed and recycled ,
   minimizing environmental impact
DE automatic sorting; composting; food-contaminated plastics; hyperspectral
   imaging ( hsi ); machine learning; recycling

---

UT 1114
AR [Anonymous], 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V163, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105148
TI Advancing sustainable food Packaging: Integrating machine learning, deep
   learning, and artificial intelligence
TC 22
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : the implementation of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in food
   packaging is transforming the food industry with groundbreaking technologies
   to improve food safety , quality , and sustainability . a growing assortment
   of ai technologies , including machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning (
   dl ) , are being integrated into packaging strategies . scope and approach :
   this paper provides an in depth overview of the development in smart ,
   active , and intelligent packaging systems , with a focus on ai based
   technologies such as machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) .
   further , new smart technologies like hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) and
   robotics are discussed to identify their applications in optimizing
   packaging processes . the various applications of ai in food packaging ,
   including shelf life prediction , quality assessment , and defect detection
   , are thoroughly examined . in addition , there are challenges , including
   data heterogeneity , model capabilities , and scalability , that highlight
   the need for a robust ai framework for successful deployment . overall , the
   food packaging sector has the ability to leverage ai to increase
   productivity , improve food safety , and minimize food wastage . key
   findings and conclusions : the application of ai in food packaging offers
   significant benefits , including increased productivity , improved food
   safety , and reduced waste . resolving data and model performance
   difficulties is necessary to fully leverage these technologies . the
   development of completely automated inspection solutions and real time
   monitoring systems should be the top priorities of future research to
   enhance the sustainability and authenticity of food packaging significantly
DE bio-based material; food safety; hyperspectral imaging; intelligent
   packaging; quality evaluation; robotics
ID deep learning; food safety; intelligent robots; learning systems; packaging;
   packaging machines; packaging materials; real time systems; sustainable
   development; bio-based materials; food industries; food packaging; food
   safety; hyperspectral; integrating machines; intelligent packaging; machine
   learning; quality evaluation; safety qualities; quality control

---

UT 1115
AR A Gualotuña M, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1676 LNNS, P512, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-07989-3_33
TI Evaluation of Demand Forecasting Algorithms in the Food Industry: Comparison
   of Machine Learning and Time Series Methods
AU A Gualotuña M; Toapanta KP; Naranjo JE
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB production planning in the food industry faces several challenges due to the
   absence of current technology and appropriate forecasting techniques . this
   study proposes to improve forecast by comparing machine learning algorithms
   and time series method . three forecasting methods were evaluated : i )
   crystal ball , using the sarima model . ii ) weka , using neural networks .
   and iii ) machine learning models , created in python , with algorithms such
   as random forest ( rf ) . error metrics such as mae , rmse , mape and r2
   were evaluated , in addition to a survey based on the system usability scale
   ( sus ) to assess ease of use . the case study was developed in a company
   that uses traditional tools such as microsoft excel . the results revealed
   that weka was the most accurate in product 001002 with a mape of 1 % , rmse
   of 8.66 and mae of 6.58. in terms of usability , crystal ball achieved the
   highest score ( 70 points ) , outperforming the other two proposals ,
   indicating that the software selection is based on a balance between
   accuracy and ease of use . the incorporation of sophisticated models
   enhances demand anticipation , improving inventory management and
   operational efficiency
DE forecasting; machine learning; optimization; sus
ID computer software; food industry; intelligent systems; inventory control;
   learning algorithms; learning systems; machine learning; production control;
   time series; time series analysis; crystal balls; demand forecasting; ease-
   of-use; food industries; forecasting algorithm; machine learning;
   optimizations; system usability; system usability scale; time series method;
   forecasting

---

UT 1116
AR Bhabal A, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1459 LNNS, P225, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-7505-0_18
TI Analysis of Customer Reviews on Food Delivery Platforms Using Deep Learning
AU Bhabal A; Bharimalla A; Balankhe S; Chavan V; Narawade V
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the overnight growth of ofd service businesses , due to technological
   advancement and a change in consumer behavior , has made reviews furnished
   by customers imperative for improvement in service quality , demand
   forecasting , and customer satisfaction . the vast amount of unstructured
   data makes the conventional method too ineffective . the following review
   thus provides valuable insights from diverse studies that are being done to
   apply deep learning , reinforcement learning , and ensemble learning in
   analyzing customer reviews of food delivery platforms . it goes on to
   provide ways through sentiment analysis , demand forecasting , dynamic
   recommendations of orders , and personalized marketing that these studies
   have proven how machine learning can make a difference in operatively
   effectively producing efficiency . it also provides an overview of the
   challenges in terms of data imbalance , scalability , and sustainability
   concerns , thus showing perspectives for further research in developing ofd
   platforms capabilities for optimized and personalized services that take
   into account environmental and social impacts
DE deep learning; demand forecasting; machine learning; online food delivery;
   sentiment analysis
ID consumer behavior; customer satisfaction; deep reinforcement learning;
   learning systems; quality of service; sales; sustainable development;
   technological forecasting; customer review; deep learning; demand
   forecasting; food delivery; machine learning; online food delivery;
   sentiment analysis; service business; service quality; technological
   advancement; deep learning

---

UT 1117
AR Chokri H, 2025, COMPUT IND ENG, V207, DOI 10.1016/j.cie.2025.111203
TI Agri-food supply chain network design: A comprehensive review and future
   research directions
AU Chokri H; Nouaouri I; Allaoui H; Lasram FBR
TC 6
SO COMPUT IND ENG
PY 2025
AB agri food supply chain network design ( afscnd ) is a growing field of
   research , as it has been and continues to be crucial in ensuring food
   security . in modern supply chain design , strategic decisions increasingly
   reflect the interaction between profit driven enterprises and sustainability
   focused regulatory bodies . despite the existence of several review papers ,
   a systematic review that synthesizes and analyzes recent contributions to
   the design of agri food supply chain networks , as a strategic decision ,
   within a framework emphasizing perishability modeling , sustainability ,
   resiliency , and the role of artificial intelligence ( ai ) is still needed
   . this paper aims to fill this gap by focusing on how the literature
   addresses ( i ) strategic decisions and their coordination with either the
   tactical , the operational levels , or both , within forward or closed loop
   supply chains ( clscs ) . ( ii ) perishability modeling , a critical
   characteristic of many agri food products . ( iii ) solution approaches ,
   key decision variables , and uncertainty modeling . and ( iv ) the
   integration of ai techniques at the strategic level of network design . by
   evaluating the interplay among these elements , our objective is to provide
   a clear overview of current advancements , identify research gaps , and
   propose future directions for designing sustainable and resilient agri food
   supply chains
DE agri-food; agri-food supply chain network design; artificial intelligence in
   agri-food; green supply chain; or in agriculture; perishability; resiliency;
   supply chain management; susiliency; sustainability; uncertainty
ID green development; agri-food supply chain network design; agri-food supply
   chain networks; artificial intelligence in agri-food; chain management;
   green supply chain; or in agriculture; perishability; resiliency; supply
   chain network design; susiliency; uncertainty; sustainable agriculture

---

UT 1118
AR Yan H, 2026, FOOD POLIC, V140, DOI 10.1016/j.foodpol.2026.103077
TI Forecasting for food price inflation using machine learning methodology:
   Expansion on FRED-MD
AU Yan H; Manfredo M; Mishra AK/1
TC 0
SO FOOD POLIC
PY 2026
AB food price inflation has become a significant policy issue in the united
   states again , driven by recent shocks like the covid 19 pandemic , global
   supply disruptions , and rising energy and input costs . because low income
   households spend a larger part of their budgets on food , increases in food
   prices directly affect food security , nutrition programs , and economic
   policies . this study assesses various machine learning techniques for
   forecasting monthly you . s . food price inflation , using an extended
   version of the federal reserve s fred md dataset . we enhance fred md with
   food and agriculture related variables , including fertilizer prices ,
   energy costs , commodity market indicators , and supply chain stress
   measures , to better understand the drivers of food price changes . our
   results show that machine learning models and forecast combination methods
   generally outperform simple univariate benchmarks , especially over medium
   term horizons , while basic autoregressive models perform well in the short
   term . combining forecasts provides the most reliable improvements ,
   especially for six and twelve month inflation predictions . additionally ,
   incorporating sector specific data improves rmse across nearly all methods ,
   although statistically significant gains are concentrated in random forest ,
   neural networks , and forecast combination strategies , particularly for
   accumulated forecasts these findings emphasize the value of integrating
   domain specific information into advanced forecasting tools to better
   support food security policy , nutrition programs , and economic planning
DE big data; food prices; forecast combination; inflation forecasting; machine
   learning
ID united states; data management; economic policy; food market; food security;
   forecasting method; inflation; machine learning; nutrition

---

UT 1119
AR Ajith S, 2025, DISCOV FOOD, V5, DOI 10.1007/s44187-025-00338-1
TI Yield prediction, pest and disease diagnosis, soil fertility mapping,
   precision irrigation scheduling, and food quality assessment using machine
   learning and deep learning algorithms
AU Ajith S; Vijayakumar S; Elakkiya N
TC 43
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2025
AB the growing demand for food grains amidst resource constraints necessitates
   advancements in crop management . artificial intelligence , particularly
   machine learning and deep learning , is revolutionizing agricultural
   practices by enabling data driven , precise , and sustainable solutions .
   this review synthesizes advancements in artificial intelligence applications
   across key domains , including crop yield prediction , precision irrigation
   , soil fertility mapping , insect pest and disease forecasting , and
   foodgrain quality assessment . artificial intelligence algorithms
   efficiently process vast datasets from unmanned aerial vehicles , ground
   vehicles , and satellites , enabling precise and timely interventions .
   artificial intelligence driven tools automate pest detection and
   classification , optimize irrigation with minimal human input , generate
   high resolution soil fertility maps , and enhance foodgrain quality
   assessment through rapid defect and contaminant detection . artificial
   intelligence powered precision irrigation integrates real time soil moisture
   data and weather predictions for optimized water usage . similarly ,
   artificial intelligence driven soil fertility mapping not only enables high
   resolution assessments but also facilitates real time monitoring of nutrient
   dynamics , supporting sustainable land management . in pest and disease
   detection , artificial intelligence systems combining image processing and
   real time analytics demonstrate promise for early intervention . artificial
   intelligence integration into foodgrain quality assessment leverages
   hyperspectral imaging and predictive models to enhance grading ,
   adulteration detection , and contaminant screening , contributing to food
   safety and market competitiveness . furthermore , advancements in transfer
   learning and data augmentation have improved artificial intelligence
   adoption in regions with limited datasets . while artificial intelligence
   technologies promise to boost agricultural productivity and sustainability ,
   their efficacy and scalability hinges on data quality , diversity , and
   availability
DE artificial intelligence; crop protection; nutrient management; soil
   moisture; yield forecasting
ID crop protection; fertilizers; %moisture; crop protection; high resolution;
   machine learning; nutrient management; precision irrigation; quality
   assessment; soil fertility; yield forecasting; yield prediction; deep
   learning

---

UT 1120
AR Hasan MA, 2025, PROC ANNU HAWAII INT CONF SYST SCI, P3290, DOI
   10.24251/hicss.2025.397
TI Deep-learning-based Detection of Food Hypersensitivity from Confocal Laser
   Endomicroscopy Images of the Gastrointestinal Tract
AU Hasan MA; Li F/1; Tetzlaff-Lelleck V; Schmelter F; Ahlemann GM; Jablonski L;
   Huang X/3; Sina C; Grzegorzek M
TC 0
SO PROC ANNU HAWAII INT CONF SYST SCI
PY 2025
AB food hypersensitivity ( fhs ) is a relatively common pathological condition
   characterized by adverse reactions to specific foods or food components with
   currently limited diagnostic methods . confocal laser endomicroscopy ( cle )
   has recently been proposed for the assessment of fhs , but their
   interpretation can be challenging even for trained physicians . we propose
   to alleviate this problem by training machine learning models on cle images
   of the duodenal mucosa in the gastrointestinal tract for the binary
   classification problem of recognizing images that show an adverse reaction
   after intestinal food challenge . more specifically , the performances of
   four state of the art image classification models ( vgg16 , inception v3 ,
   xception , mobilenet v2 ) are compared on one dataset acquired from 38
   patients with proven fhs . additionally , the models decisions are
   interpreted using the grad cam technique . our study shows that although all
   four models achieve satisfying classification performances , they learn very
   different features in terms of interpretability from the clinical
   perspective
DE confocal laser endomicroscopy; deep learning; food hypersensitivity; grad-
   cam
ID confocal laser endomicroscopy; deep learning; diagnostic methods; food
   components; food hypersensitivities; gastrointestinal tract; grad-cam;
   machine learning models; pathological conditions; training machines;
   endoscopy

---

UT 1121
AR Tangtisanon P, 2025, SENS MATER, V37, P5373, DOI 10.18494/SAM5894
TI A Portable Electronic Nose for Real-time Monitoring of Food Spoilage Using
   Multiple Machine Learning Models
AU Tangtisanon P; Grodniyomchai B
TC 0
SO SENS MATER
PY 2025
AB in this study , we present the design and development of a portable
   electronic nose ( e nose ) system for detecting and classifying spoiled
   household food through the application of machine learning ( ml ) techniques
   . the targeted odors include fungi from bread , spoiled rice , spoiled milk
   , yogurt , rotten egg , rotten boiled egg , rotten pork , and rotten beef ,
   totaling eight odor classes . a total of 1800 samples were collected using
   three gas sensors and one temperature sensor . after outlier removal with
   isolation forest , 1000 samples remained . multiple ml models were trained
   and evaluated over ten iterations , comparing classification accuracy and
   processing time . among all the models , the k nearest neighbor ( knn )
   achieved the highest performance , with an average accuracy of 99.889 % and
   an average processing time of 0.167477 s . the decision tree ( dt ) model
   followed closely with an accuracy of 99.843 % and required a significantly
   less processing time of 0.012080 s . although dt has a slightly lower
   accuracy than knn , its processing time is 13.86 times faster . for our
   scenario that requires real time results , dt is a better choice than knn .
   the proposed portable e nose demonstrates strong potential for realworld
   applications such as food spoilage detection , environmental monitoring ,
   and health diagnostics . myu k . k .
DE electronic nose; gas sensor; machine learning; odor classification; portable
   device
ID decision trees; forestry; gas detectors; learning systems; machine learning;
   meats; nearest neighbor search; odors; sensory aids; spoilage; food
   spoilage; gas-sensors; machine learning models; machine learning; multiple
   machine; nearest-neighbour; odor classification; portable device; portable
   electronic nose; processing time; electronic nose

---

UT 1122
AR Wei C/1, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V499, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.147377
TI Artificial intelligence revolutionize food detection?  Vision, olfaction and
   taste integrated with machine learning/deep learning in food detection
AU Wei C/1; Zhou L/1; Liang B; Chen J/3; Wang G/1; Li X/13
TC 1
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence ( ai ) is profoundly
   transforming the theoretical framework and technological paradigm of food
   detection . the study focuses on elucidating the underlying mechanisms of
   machine learning ( ml )-and deep learning ( dl ) -based ai in feature
   extraction , pattern recognition , and decision feedback . ai algorithms
   have enabled perception systems such as computer vision , electronic nose ,
   and electronic tongue to overcome their dependence on handcrafted features ,
   achieving automatic learning and high dimensional representation of complex
   signals , thereby significantly enhancing detection accuracy and robustness
   . in addition , this paper systematically analyzes the advantages and
   limitations of ai empowered perception technologies and presents prospects
   for the potential applications of multimodal data fusion and large language
   models ( llms ) . finally , the study summarizes the major challenges that
   ai still faces in food detection and outlines potential directions for
   future development
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food detection; machine learning;
   perception technology
ID artificial intelligence; deep learning; electronic nose; food analysis;
   humans; machine learning; smell; taste; e-learning; electronic nose; feature
   extraction; learning algorithms; learning systems; decision-feedback; deep
   learning; extraction patterns; features extraction; food detection; machine
   learning; mechanism of machines; pattern decisions; perception technology;
   theoretical framework; algorithm; artificial intelligence; computer vision;
   conceptual framework; deep learning; diagnosis; electric potential;
   electronic nose; feature extraction; human; large language model; learning;
   machine learning; pattern recognition; perception; review; smelling; taste;
   vision; devices; food analysis; odor; procedures; taste; deep learning

---

UT 1123
AR Joshi A/1, 2025, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN AUTOM ICCCA, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCA66364.2025.11325152
TI Explainable Deep Learning Approach for Food Adulteration Detection using
   LIME
AU Joshi A/1; Saha A; Singh AP; Dwivedi K; Chaudhary J; Joshi DC
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN AUTOM ICCCA
PY 2025
AB food adulteration is a critical global public health concern leading to life
   threatening illnesses like cancer , paralysis , and gastrointestinal
   disorders . conventional detection methods rely on expensive , time
   consuming chemical analysis techniques , making large scale monitoring
   challenging . to address this , we propose a deep learning based framework
   for identifying adulterated groundnut oil samples using convolutional neural
   networks ( cnn ) , artificial neural networks ( ann ) , long short term
   memory ( lstm ) , and autoencoders . furthermore , to improve the
   transparency and trust of the models , local interpretable model agnostic
   explanations ( lime ) are incorporated . our cnn based model achieved the
   highest accuracy , precision , and recall among tested architectures . lime
   visualizations highlighted the important chemical properties impacting
   decisions , such as iodine and saponification values . we present not only
   an efficient and scalable approach for food adulteration detection but also
   emphasize model interpretability , essential for regulatory acceptance .
   future work includes deploying transformer based models and real time mobile
   solutions to enhance food safety globally
DE ann; autoencoder; cnn; deep learning; explainable ai; food adulteration;
   lime; lstm
ID chemical detection; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks;
   diseases; food safety; information use; learning systems; long short-term
   memory; auto encoders; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   explainable ai; food adulterations; global public health; learning approach;
   local interpretable model-agnostic explanation; neural networks; short-term
   memory; lime

---

UT 1124
AR Ablegue AGM-D, 2026, FOOD REV INT, V42, P2189, DOI
   10.1080/87559129.2025.2541856
TI Monitoring and Shelf Life Extension of Food Products Based on Machine
   Learning and Deep Learning: Progress and Potential Applications
AU Ablegue AGM-D; Zhang M/3; Guo Q/1; Rui L
TC 4
SO FOOD REV INT
PY 2026
AB recent advances in artificial intelligence ( ai ) , particularly machine
   learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) , offer promising approaches for
   the rapid , precise , and dynamic assessment of food quality and shelf life
   . the aim of this review is to critically evaluate the progress of ml and dl
   algorithms in monitoring and predicting the shelf life of diverse food
   products , including meat , dairy , fruits , vegetables , and beverages . it
   highlights their capacity to process complex datasets and integrate key
   intrinsic and extrinsic degradation factors , thereby improving prediction
   accuracy . the review also discusses ai model validation frameworks
   essential for ensuring reliability and robustness of predictions in real
   world food industry applications . the integration of ai technologies with
   blockchain systems is further explored as a pathway to ensuring transparency
   and traceability within the food supply chain . additionally , the review
   addresses critical challenges such as limited data availability , high
   implementation costs , regulatory compliance , and ethical concerns that may
   hinder large scale adoption . the findings indicate that ai based approaches
   outperform traditional techniques in predictive modeling by leveraging high
   dimensional data , enabling real time monitoring , and adapting to dynamic
   food systems . moreover , the integration of ai with the internet of things
   ( iot ) and big data holds transformative potential to revolutionize food
   industry practices and ensure enhanced food safety and sustainability
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food shelf life; food supply chain;
   machine learning
ID food industry; food safety; food security; food supply; forecasting; large
   datasets; learning systems; real time systems; regulatory compliance; shelf
   life; deep learning; food industries; food shelf life; food supply chain;
   learning potential; learning progress; machine learning; on-machines; shelf
   life; shelf life extensions; algorithm; artificial intelligence; beverage;
   big data; blockchain; catering service; deep learning; food industry; food
   quality; food safety; internet of things; machine learning; prediction;
   predictive model; regulatory compliance; reliability; review; shelf life;
   supply chain; vegetable; deep learning

---

UT 1125
AR İpek SL, 2025, HEAL NUTR SUSTAIN EXPLOR UNCONV FOOD SOURCES VOL 1, P583, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-32920-3.00025-2
TI Innovative approaches to food waste reduction: technological solutions and
   initiatives
AU İpek SL; Adal S; Mzoughi M; Adal M
TC 0
SO HEAL NUTR SUSTAIN EXPLOR UNCONV FOOD SOURCES VOL 1
PY 2025
AB food waste ( fw ) constitutes a global challenge with considerable economic
   , environmental , and ethical implications . developed nations exhibit
   greater per capita fw rates than developing countries , demanding immediate
   initiatives for effective fw management . fw management strategies encompass
   traditional techniques such as landfilling , incineration , and composting ,
   as well as advanced methods , including anaerobic digestion ( ad ) , biofuel
   generation , and circular economy frameworks . ad , a favored method for fw
   valorization , facilitates bioenergy generation while reducing environmental
   impact . nonetheless , obstacles such as elevated capital expenditures and
   process volatility impede its extensive implementation . innovative fw
   reduction solutions include biotechnology , artificial intelligence ( ai ) ,
   and precision agriculture . innovative food preservation methods , including
   high pressure processing , pulsed electric fields , and cold plasma ,
   enhance shelf life while reducing waste . advanced packaging methods ,
   including modified environment packaging and intelligent packaging , improve
   food preservation . sustainable agriculture methods , including precision
   farming , internet of things ( iot ) applications , and clustered regularly
   interspaced short palindromic repeats ( crispr ) gene editing , optimize
   resource use and improve food security . ai is integral to fw management by
   enhancing food distribution , improving bioprocess efficiency , and
   monitoring waste . food rescue groups are essential in reallocating excess
   food to combat food poverty . bioenergy generation from fw is a viable
   renewable energy alternative that diminishes dependence on fossil fuels .
   circular economy models prioritize resource efficiency by converting fw into
   valuable agricultural inputs , biofuels , and bioplastics . this chapter
   analyzes waste generation , management , and valorization strategies ,
   focusing on both conventional and innovative methods . it evaluates current
   waste reduction methods , assesses emerging technologies , and highlights
   sustainable waste management policy frameworks . the research also
   identifies gaps in current waste management practices and proposes solutions
   to improve food security , reduce environmental degradation , and support a
   circular economy . 2026 elsevier inc . all rights reserved . .
DE ai in food waste; bio-energy from food waste; circular economy; food waste
   environmental impacts; food waste management; precision agriculture;
   sustainable food systems
ID agricultural economics; biofuels; circular economy; environmental
   management; food preservation; food security; food supply; food waste;
   precision agriculture; renewable energy; sustainable development; artificial
   intelligence in food waste; bio-energy; bio-energy from food waste; circular
   economy; food system; food waste; food waste environmental impact; food
   waste management; precision agriculture; sustainable food system; anaerobic
   digestion

---

UT 1126
AR Madhumitha GK, 2025, INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL ENG APPL ICETEA - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ICETEA64585.2025.11099672
TI An AI Smart Refrigerator: Enhancing Food Management with Computer Vision,
   Sensor, IoT, and Automated Temperature Control
AU Madhumitha GK; Puja L; Revathi M
TC 1
SO INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL ENG APPL ICETEA - PROC
PY 2025
AB with the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and the
   internet of things ( iot ) , smart home appliances are transforming everyday
   life . this paper presents a modern intelligent refrigerator equipped with a
   sensor camera , barcode scanner , and automated temperature control to
   enhance food management efficiency . the system uses computer vision and
   machine learning algorithms to recognize stored items , track inventory via
   a mobile app , and predict expiry dates by scanning barcodes . additionally
   , the refrigerator optimizes food preservation by dynamically adjusting its
   internal temperature based on the type of stored items . the proposed
   solution aims to reduce food wastage , improve user convenience , and
   enhance energy efficiency . the integration of iot enables real time
   monitoring and alerts , ensuring users are informed about expiring products
   and optimal storage conditions . this paper discusses the system
   architecture , key technologies , implementation methodology , and potential
   challenges , offering insights into the future of ai powered kitchen
   automation
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); automated temperature control; barcode
   scanner; computer vision; food management efficiency; internet of things (
   iot ); machine learning algorithms; sensor camera
ID automation; bar codes; cameras; computer control; computer control systems;
   food preservation; food storage; green computing; intelligent buildings;
   internet of things; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine learning;
   multimedia systems; refrigerators; temperature control; thermal processing (
   foods ); automated temperature control; barcode scanner; computer vision
   sensors; food management; food management efficiency; intelligent
   refrigerators; machine learning algorithms; management efficiency; sensor
   camera; smart homes; computer vision

---

UT 1127
AR Çelik MN, 2026, NUTR RES, V145, P25, DOI 10.1016/j.nutres.2025.11.007
TI The integration of artificial intelligence-generated diets into the field of
   dietetics: Synergy or threat?
AU Çelik MN; Karademir E; Gürbüz M
TC 1
SO NUTR RES
PY 2026
AB the objective of this study was to conduct a comparative analysis of diets
   generated by artificial intelligence ( ai ) tools ( chatgpt 4o and gemini
   advanced ) and those prescribed by dietitians . each researcher ( n : 3 )
   obtained 15-day diet plans from ai in separate accounts and 3-day diet plans
   from five dietitians . in total , 135 diet plans were obtained for each
   researcher , 45 from chatgpt 4o , 45 from gemini , and 45 from dietitians .
   diet plans were entered into the bebis v9.0 program . nutrient rich foods (
   nrf ) 15.3 scores , estimated glycemic index ( gi ) score , saturated fatty
   acid ( sfa ) /unsaturated fatty acid ratio , mufa / pufa ratio , -6/-3 ratio
   , amino acid ( aa ) score , and composite dietary antioxidant index ( cdai )
   score were evaluated . chatgpt 4o achieved the highest trient nrf15.3 score
   , while gemini advanced achieved the highest aa score despite overall
   inadequate protein quality . ai tools exhibited a significantly lower
   percentage of energy from sfa ( % ) , sfa / usfa , and sfa / pufa ratio in
   comparison with diets prescribed by dietitians . the diets produced by
   gemini advanced demonstrated the highest mufa / pufa ratio . all diet plans
   were within the acceptable range in terms of the -6/-3 ratio , with no
   significant differences between the groups . while no significant
   differences were found in the estimated gi , dietitian prescribed diets
   achieved significantly higher cdai , suggesting greater antioxidant capacity
   in their overall menu composition . these findings suggest that ai tools can
   generate nutritionally sound diets with only minor deviations from those
   prepared by dietitians , potentially enhancing efficiency and reducing
   workload . however , human oversight remains essential to ensure nutritional
   adequacy , address micronutrient gaps , and guide critical dietary decisions
DE ai-generated diets; artificial intelligence; chatgpt; dietitian; gemini; nrf
   153
ID artificial intelligence; diet; dietetics; glycemic index; humans;
   nutritionists; nutritive value; monounsaturated fatty acid; omega 3 fatty
   acid; omega 6 fatty acid; polyunsaturated fatty acid; saturated fatty acid;
   trace element; unsaturated fatty acid; article; artificial intelligence;
   artificial intelligence chatbot; chatgpt; composite dietary antioxidant
   index; controlled study; diet; diet quality; dietetics; dietitian; food
   composition; glycemic index; human; macronutrient; metabolic parameters;
   monounsaturated fatty acid to polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio; omega 6
   fatty acid to omega 3 fatty acid ratio; prescription; saturated fatty acid
   to unsaturated fatty acid ratio; structured diet; comparative study;
   nutritional value; procedures

---

UT 1128
AR Reddy YCAP, 2025, IEEE INT CONF WOMEN COMPUT INCOWOCO, DOI
   10.1109/InCoWoCo68239.2025.11407025
TI Ingredient Detection and Recipe Suggestions using Machine Learning
AU Reddy YCAP; Rani KMS; Reddy RR; Koutam N; Kotturu S
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF WOMEN COMPUT INCOWOCO
PY 2025
AB this paper introduces a system that combines computer vision and ai to
   enhance culinary experiences . we use the yolov8 model to recognize
   ingredients in photos , focusing on vegetables and other food products
   typically used during cooking . we used roboflow to gather and prepare the
   training data , which helped our model recognize ingredients with greater
   accuracy . once the items are identified , a generative ai suggests recipes
   tailored to those ingredients . the goal is to make cooking more
   straightforward cutting down on time spent figuring out what to cook ,
   especially when ingredients are limited . during testing , the system
   performed well in real time scenarios , and we found it useful for both
   everyday home cooks and professional chefs looking to try something new .
   overall , the paper highlights how ai can actually play a creative and
   supportive role in the kitchen
DE computer vision; flask; generative ai; ingredient detection; pytorch; recipe
   generation; roboflow; yolov8
ID cooking; food ingredients; food products; learning systems; flask;
   generative ai; ingredient detection; machine learning; pytorch; recipe
   generation; roboflow; time-spent; training data; yolov8; computer vision

---

UT 1129
AR Sekar K, 2025, IEEE INT CONF IND ELECTRON DEV APPL ICIDEA, DOI
   10.1109/ICIDeA64800.2025.10962944
TI An Efficient Deep Learning Approach for Food Quality Detection
AU Sekar K; Yuvarajan T; Tejashwini JS; Dheepa T
TC 2
SO IEEE INT CONF IND ELECTRON DEV APPL ICIDEA
PY 2025
AB this research aims to develop a deep learning system for assessing food
   edibility based on user uploaded photos , addressing the global challenge of
   food waste . the system leverages the yolov8 model , renowned for its
   efficiency in object detection and classification , to evaluate visual
   attributes such as color changes , mold , and texture abnormalities ,
   determining whether food is fresh or spoiled . with its advanced detection
   capabilities , yolov8 is well suited for real time classification , ensuring
   quick and accurate identification of spoilage across diverse food types and
   varying lighting conditions . unlike traditional systems that often struggle
   with accuracy , especially when dealing with a wide variety of foods , this
   approach significantly enhances reliability . by enabling individuals to
   identify unsafe or spoiled food before consumption , this project
   contributes to reducing waste and promoting sustainable food practices while
   improving food safety
DE deep learning; edibility detection; food safety; food spoilage; image
   classification; yolov8
ID damage detection; spoilage; deep learning; edibility detection; food
   quality; food spoilage; food safety; global challenges; images
   classification; learning approach; quality detection; yolov8; deep learning

---

UT 1130
AR Qin X, 2026, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V123 SIST, P509, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-7332-2_45
TI Application of Artificial Intelligence-Assisted Technology in Food Packaging
   Design
AU Qin X
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB with the increasing market demand for personalized and high quality food
   packaging design , traditional design methods gradually expose issues of
   inefficiency and high costs . to address this , an improved you net network
   model is proposed , which integrates conditional generative adversarial
   networks ( cgans ) and multi scale feature fusion techniques to efficiently
   generate packaging design images with consistent styles and rich details .
   experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms
   traditional models such as convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) and
   variational autoencoders ( vaes ) in terms of image generation quality and
   stability . at 150 iterations , the structural similarity index measure (
   ssim ) of the proposed model reaches 1.00 , and the peak signal to noise
   ratio ( psnr ) is improved to 48 db , exhibiting extremely high
   reconstruction accuracy . furthermore , the proposed model exhibits
   excellent performance in stability tests , with a final stability value
   close to 0.99 , significantly higher than that of the comparison models . in
   summary , the improved you net model provides an efficient solution for food
   packaging design , enhancing the automation level of the design process
   while ensuring image generation quality , and opens up new avenues for
   future intelligent food packaging design
DE adaptive attention mechanism; artificial intelligence; food packaging
   design; image generation; style consistency; u-net network
ID binary alloys; convolutional neural networks; differential equations; image
   quality; packaging; packaging machines; product design; variational
   techniques; adaptive attention mechanism; attention mechanisms; food
   packaging; food packaging design; image generations; market demand; net
   networks; packaging designs; style consistency; u-net network; image
   enhancement

---

UT 1131
AR Borugadda P, 2026, J FUTUR FOODS, V6, P971, DOI 10.1016/j.jfutfo.2025.07.002
TI A comprehensive analysis of artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep
   learning and computer vision in food science
AU Borugadda P; Kalluri HK
TC 9
SO J FUTUR FOODS
PY 2026
AB providing safe and quality food is crucial for every household and is of
   extreme significance in the growth of any society . it is a complex
   procedure that deals with all issues focusing on the development of food
   processing from seed to harvest , storage , preparation , and consumption .
   this current paper seeks to demystify the importance of artificial
   intelligence , machine learning ( ml ) , deep learning ( dl ) , and computer
   vision ( cv ) in ensuring food safety and quality . by stressing the
   importance of these technologies , the audience will feel reassured and
   confident in their potential . these are very handy for such problems ,
   giving assurance over food safety . cv is incredibly noble in today s
   generation because it improves food processing quality and positively
   impacts firms and researchers . thus , at the present production stage ,
   rich in image processing and computer visioning is incorporated into all
   facets of food production . in this field , dl and ml are implemented to
   identify the type of food in addition to quality . concerning data and
   result oriented perceptions , one has found similarities regarding various
   approaches . as a result , the findings of this study will be helpful for
   scholars looking for a proper approach to identify the quality of food
   offered . it helps to indicate which food products have been discussed by
   other scholars and let us the reader know papers by other scholars inclined
   to research further . also , dl is accurately integrated with identifying
   the quality and safety of foods in the market . this paper describes the
   current practices and concerns of ml , dl , and probable trends for its
   future development
DE artificial intelligence computer vision deep learning food quality food
   recognition machine learning
ID artificial intelligence; computer; computer vision; deep learning; food
   industry; food processing; food quality; food safety; harvest; household;
   image processing; machine learning; nutritional science; plant seed; review

---

UT 1132
AR Singh D/1, 2025, J FOOD PROT, V88, DOI 10.1016/j.jfp.2025.100621
TI Harnessing Artificial Intelligence to Safeguard Food Quality and Safety
AU Singh D/1
TC 14
SO J FOOD PROT
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is reforming the food industry , particularly
   in food safety and quality control , by enhancing detection , predicting
   shelf life , and optimizing production processes . this review explores the
   innovative role of ai , focusing on the integration of machine learning ( ml
   ) , computer vision , and natural language processing ( nlp ) in food safety
   systems . ai is transforming food safety by enabling real time monitoring ,
   predictive analytics , rapid contaminant detection , and automation
   throughout the food supply chain . these technologies reduce human error and
   allow quicker responses to safety threats , ultimately preventing foodborne
   illnesses and improving product quality . ai also helps to predict and
   manage climate induced risks , such as chemical and microbiological hazards
   linked to extreme weather and temperature shifts . the review outlines the
   integration of digital tools such as biosensors and internet of things ( iot
   ) devices and examines ai s convergence with blockchain and process
   analytical technologies to enhance traceability and strengthen food safety
   management systems . despite its potential , the widespread adoption of ai
   is hindered by challenges such as data privacy concerns , workforce
   adaptation , and regulatory barriers , while critical gaps in digital
   infrastructure , data standardization , and policy support also need to be
   addressed to enable effective implementation . the review highlights the
   importance of ethical frameworks and interdisciplinary collaboration to
   guide responsible ai deployment . emerging tools like neural networks and
   behavior based safety assessments can boost food system resilience . the
   review concludes by calling for enhanced regulatory cooperation and
   technological investment to realize ai s full potential in creating safer ,
   more sustainable , and efficient food systems
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision; food safety; machine learning;
   natural language processing; predictive analytics
ID artificial intelligence; food contamination; food quality; food safety;
   humans; algorithm bias; artificial intelligence; automation; catering
   service; data privacy; extreme weather; food industry; food quality; food
   safety; human; infrastructure; internet of things; investment; machine
   learning; natural language processing; product quality; review; safety
   assessment; shelf life; temperature; workforce; food contamination;
   prevention and control; procedures

---

UT 1133
AR Shahriar S, 2025, J AGRIC FOOD RES, V20, DOI 10.1016/j.jafr.2025.101787
TI The role of generative artificial intelligence in digital agri-food
AU Shahriar S; Corradini MG/1; Sharif S; Moussa M; Dara R
TC 39
SO J AGRIC FOOD RES
PY 2025
AB the agriculture and food ( agri food ) sector faces rising global concerns
   about its sustainability and resilience to climate events . thus , new
   solutions are needed to ensure environmental and food security . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) offers inventive solutions to improve agricultural and
   food production practices . generative ai methods , such as generative
   adversarial networks ( gans ) , variational autoencoders , and large
   language models ( llms ) , add to the transformative process initiated by ai
   and expert systems in agricultural and food related practices to enhance
   productivity , sustainability , and resilience . this study categorizes
   generative ai approaches and their capabilities in agri food systems and
   provides a comprehensive review of the current landscape of generative ai
   applications in the sector . it discusses the impact of these technologies
   on enhancing agricultural productivity , food quality , and safety , as well
   as sustainability , presenting potential use cases like combatting climate
   change and foodborne disease modeling that highlight the practical
   applications and benefits of generative ai in agri food . furthermore , it
   addresses the ethical implications of deploying generative ai , including
   privacy , security , reliability , and unbiased decision making
DE agri-food; digital agriculture; food authenticity; food quality; food
   safety; food security; generative artificial intelligence; smart food;
   sustainable agriculture

---

UT 1134
AR Samuel SA, 2025, INT CONF SMART COMPUT COMMUN INTELL TECHNOL SUSTAIN WORLD
   ICSCC, DOI 10.1109/ICSCC66177.2025.11233598
TI A Food Freshness and Calorie Estimation System for Traditional Kerala Food
   using Machine Learning
AU Samuel SA; Nidhin R; Krishna K; Nandana R; Varghese MA; Cherian C
TC 0
SO INT CONF SMART COMPUT COMMUN INTELL TECHNOL SUSTAIN WORLD ICSCC
PY 2025
AB traditional kerala foods like idli , puttu , chapati , vada , and
   stringhopper spoil easily under the humid weather , making it health
   hazardous and wastage of food . conventional methods of freshness detection
   rely on human judgment , which is mostly in error . this paper introduces a
   food freshness and calorie estimation system using inceptionv3 cnn to
   classify images of foods as fresh , stale , or burnt based on texture ,
   color , and surface deformation . transfer learning enhances the accuracy
   despite having a small data set . the system also estimates calorie value ,
   which helps in diet control . implemented as a mobile app , it provides real
   time analysis , ensuring food safety , wastage reduction , and informed
   consumption . the freshness detection is automated which reduces variability
   in manual inspection , offering a reliable , scalable , and efficient
   solution for households and street food vendors
DE calorie estimation; cnn; food freshness detection; inceptionv3; kerala
   cuisine; mobile application; transfer learning
ID artificial intelligence; food safety; mobile applications; mobile computing;
   nutrition; textures; calorie estimations; estimation systems; food freshness
   detection; humid weather; inceptionv3; it healths; kerala cuisine; machine
   learning; mobile applications; transfer learning; learning systems

---

UT 1135
AR Ghosh T/1, 2026, COMPUT IND ENG, V217, DOI 10.1016/j.cie.2026.112021
TI Combating the bullwhip effect in rival online food delivery platforms using
   deep learning
AU Ghosh T/1; Dey SK; Kundu K
TC 0
SO COMPUT IND ENG
PY 2026
AB the growing reliance on major indian online food delivery platforms , such
   as zomato and swiggy , has introduced significant challenges in managing
   perishable inventory under volatile and uncertain demand . a key phenomenon
   in such systems that creates significant inefficiency , is the bullwhip
   effect , where small fluctuations in consumer demand lead to amplified
   variability in upstream orders . this study proposes a two phase deep
   learning framework to mitigate the bullwhip effect in third party logistics
   ( 3pl ) -based food delivery supply chains . specifically , a long short
   term memory ( lstm ) model is developed to forecast both intraday and daily
   demand patterns , enabling more responsive and accurate inventory decisions
   . the lstm based approach is integrated with a dynamic news vendor inventory
   model and validated through discrete event simulation using synthetic but
   realistic data over 2 years . forecast performance is evaluated using rmse ,
   mae , and r2 metrics . the results show a marked reduction in the bullwhip
   coefficient , from 2.61 to 0.96 for zomato and from 2.19 to 0.80 for swiggy
   , while achieving high predictive precision ( r2 = 0.880.90 ) . the proposed
   lstm based approach not only reduces demand amplification but also
   significantly improves supply chain performance by enhancing inventory
   stability , reducing waste , and enabling proactive decision making in
   perishable goods delivery environments . this enhanced demand intelligence
   enables managers to reduce unnecessary variability across the supply chain .
   by capitalizing on the predictive insights , platform operators and
   logistics partners can strengthen coordination with restaurants and 3pl
   providers , leading to more efficient inventory utilization , reduced waste
   , and a higher level of service reliability
DE bullwhip effect; deep learning; inventory optimization; lstm; online food
   delivery; supply chain forecasting; time series
ID decision making; discrete event simulation; forecasting; information
   management; inventory control; long short-term memory; supply chains;
   bullwhip effects; deep learning; food delivery; inventory optimization;
   memory-based approach; online food delivery; perishable inventory; short-
   term memory; supply chain forecasting; times series; time series

---

UT 1136
AR Chowdhury R, 2025, INT CONF NEXT-GENER COMPUT IOT MACH LEARN NCIM, DOI
   10.1109/NCIM65934.2025.11160190
TI Automated Food Spoilage Detection Using Deep Learning: A CNN-Based Approach
AU Chowdhury R; Rahman MT; Nur FN; Sultana S; Islam AHMS
TC 0
SO INT CONF NEXT-GENER COMPUT IOT MACH LEARN NCIM
PY 2025
AB food spoilage detection is critical in ensuring food safety and reducing
   waste . in this work , we offer a new neural network model , rotornot ,
   intended for image analysis based rotten food detection . our method focuses
   on accurately identifying spoiled food , precisely spotting rot . the
   proposed method meets a vital demand for reducing food waste and
   guaranteeing food safety . through several performance criteria , the
   proposed model was thoroughly tested and showed better performance than
   current approaches . rotornot specifically obtained training accuracy of
   99.4 % , validation accuracy of 96.95 % , an outstanding roc auc score of
   99.97296 % , and a test accuracy of 97.52 % . moreover , rotornot shows the
   fastest training time and exceeds the previous models in accuracy , so it is
   a quite effective tool for practical usage . this work offers a useful
   instrument for the automatic food rotting detection , therefore improving
   food safety procedures and maybe reducing food waste
DE cnn; food safety; food spoilage detection; machine learning
ID deep learning; food microbiology; food safety; food waste; intelligent
   systems; neural networks; safety engineering; spoilage; food detection; food
   spoilage; food spoilage detection; food waste; food safety; image analyze;
   image analysis; machine learning; neural network model; reducing waste;
   learning systems

---

UT 1137
AR Srividhya CS, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V2,
   P1806
TI Machine Learning Approaches in Food Quality Enhancement for Safety – A Study
AU Srividhya CS; Siddesha S
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB food adulteration refers to the deliberate method of adding low quality sub
   stitutes to reduce food quality for monetary gain . it creates many health
   haz ards . many customers , producers of high quality goods , and government
   agencies and authorities are concerned about ensuring food authenticity to
   safeguard consumers by identifying potential food fraud . in food research
   labs , adulteration is often found by conventional methods , which are expen
   sive , and specialized expertise is needed to analyze them . the analysis of
   vast amounts of data generated from various analytical instruments is cum
   bersome and time consuming . this enables the development of ml models to
   accurately classify food samples with significantly reduced time and re
   sources . in this work , a study of different ml approaches used for food
   safety is carried out
DE e-nose; e-tongue; food adulteration; food authenticity; gi tag; machine
   learning; nir spectroscopy
ID food safety; machine learning; safety engineering; e-nose; food
   adulterations; food authenticity; food quality; gi tag; low qualities;
   machine learning approaches; machine learning; nir spectroscopy; quality
   enhancement; learning systems

---

UT 1138
AR Santhosh KNSK, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V2,
   P6300
TI Chronic Kidney Disease Prediction and Diet Recommendation using Machine
   Learning Techniques
AU Santhosh KNSK; Paul NSS; Nikshiptha AYR; Lalitha KS; Kumar GA
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB the early detection of ckd is important for timely treatment of the disease
   and helps to give the better results for patients . ckd advances through
   multiple stages before patients become aware of it because its early
   indicators easily escape detection thus resulting in serious medical issues
   . this research develops an automated machine learning based prediction
   platform for efficient diagnosis of ckd . the system utilizes extra trees
   classifier [ 13 ] alongside random forest classifier [ 14 ] and decision
   tree classifier [ 15 ] and support vector machine ( svm ) [ 16 ] and
   adaboost [ 17 ] and gaussian naive bayes [ 18 ] and gradient boosting [ 19 ]
   and k nearest neighbors ( knn ) [ 20 ] algorithms to perform the prediction
   of chronic kidney disease through clinical attributes . the evaluation
   examined various prediction models to determine their accuracy levels as
   well as precision rates and recall capabilities and f1-score performance .
   gradient boosting algorithm achieved the highest accuracy , making it the
   most reliable model for ckd prediction . the system also provides
   personalized diet recommendation to help ckd patients to manage their health
   effectively . it is the reasoning in the study that proves why artificial
   intelligence read access to medical data more effectively in the back end of
   healthcare . lower human errors and assist with clinical decisions .
   predictive models that those with such functionality show improved
   diagnostic capabilities that give us greater patients with ckd can suffer
   poor health related quality of life
DE artificial intelligence; chronic kidney disease; classification algorithms;
   data science; gradient boosting; healthcare prediction; machine learning;
   medical diagnosis
ID classifiers; computer aided diagnosis; decision trees; diseases; learning
   systems; medical computing; nutrition; patient treatment; prediction models;
   random forests; support vector machines; automated machines; chronic kidney
   disease; classification algorithm; early indicators; gradient boosting;
   healthcare prediction; machine learning techniques; machine learning;
   medical issues; multiple stages; forecasting

---

UT 1139
AR Cui Z, 2025, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V24, DOI 10.1111/1541-4337.70068
TI Artificial intelligence and food flavor: How AI models are shaping the
   future and revolutionary technologies for flavor food development
AU Cui Z; Qi C; Zhou T; Yu Y; Wang Y/4; Zhang Z/6; Zhang Y/1; Wang W/3; Liu
   Y/10
TC 66
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2025
AB the food flavor science , traditionally reliant on experimental methods , is
   now entering a promising era with the help of artificial intelligence ( ai )
   . by integrating existing technologies with ai , researchers can explore and
   develop new flavor substances in a digital environment , saving time and
   resources . more and more research will use ai and big data to enhance
   product flavor , improve product quality , meet consumer needs , and drive
   the industry toward a smarter and more sustainable future . in this review ,
   we elaborate on the mechanisms of flavor recognition and their potential
   impact on nutritional regulation . with the increase of data accumulation
   and the development of internet information technology , food flavor
   databases and food ingredient databases have made great progress . these
   databases provide detailed information on the nutritional content , flavor
   molecules , and chemical properties of various food compounds , providing
   valuable data support for the rapid evaluation of flavor components and the
   construction of screening technology . with the popularization of ai in
   various fields , the field of food flavor has also ushered in new
   development opportunities . this review explores the mechanisms of flavor
   recognition and the role of ai in enhancing food flavor analysis through
   high throughput omics data and screening technologies . ai algorithms offer
   a pathway to scientifically improve product formulations , thereby enhancing
   flavor and customized meals . furthermore , it discusses the safety
   challenges of integrating ai into the food flavor industry . 2025 institute
   of food technologists .
DE artificial intelligence; flavor perception; food design; molecular
   generation
ID artificial intelligence; flavoring agents; food analysis; food technology;
   humans; taste; food chemistry; flavoring agent; experimental methods; flavor
   perceptions; flavor substances; food designs; food flavors; future
   technologies; intelligence models; molecular generation; revolutionary
   technology; screening technology; artificial intelligence; chemistry; food
   analysis; food handling; human; procedures; taste; food ingredients

---

UT 1140
AR Yu B, 2025, SCI REP, V15, DOI 10.1038/s41598-025-25624-x
TI Machine-learning and simulation identify food-derived xanthine oxidase
   inhibitors with in-vitro activity
AU Yu B; Qin Z; Wu Y/5; He C
TC 2
SO SCI REP
PY 2025
AB gout is a common metabolic disorder caused by hyperuricaemia , with xanthine
   oxidase ( xo ) playing a key role in uric acid production . food derived xo
   inhibitors are therefore of interest as candidate chemotypes , although any
   nutraceutical application will require in vivo validation . in this study ,
   we developed an integrated in silico workflow that combines machine learning
   , molecular docking , and molecular dynamics ( md ) to prioritize potential
   inhibitors . from a library of 3,142 medicinefood homology compounds , we
   trained multiple fingerprintalgorithm classifiers . the topological torsion
   random forest ( tt rf ) model performed best , achieving an auc of 0.992 and
   a precision of 0.98 on a held out test set . applying this model yielded 128
   high confidence hits , ten of which showed docking scores 9.0 kcal / mol .
   subsequent 200-ns md simulations indicated that luteolin 7-glucuronide ,
   5,4-dihydroxyflavone , and uralenol form stable , compact complexes with xo
   . in vitro assays further confirmed xo inhibition , with ic50 values of
   26.15 , 39.06 , and 34.64 m , respectively , and negligible cytotoxicity in
   hepg2 cells up to 100 m . together , these results identify food derived
   compounds with reproducible in vitro xo inhibition . their significance for
   gout management remains to be established in in vivo studies . more broadly
   , this study illustrates a scalable framework for natural productbased
   inhibitor discovery that can guide future preclinical validation
DE machine learning; medicinefood homology; molecular docking; molecular
   dynamics simulation; xanthine oxidase inhibitor
ID enzyme inhibitors; gout; hep-g2 cells; humans; machine learning; molecular
   docking simulation; molecular dynamics simulation; xanthine oxidase; enzyme
   inhibitor; xanthine oxidase; chemistry; drug therapy; gout; hep-g2 cell
   line; human; machine learning; metabolism; molecular docking; molecular
   dynamics

---

UT 1141
AR Köse ŞG, 2026, MECH MACH SCI, V185, P503, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-95963-9_36
TI The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Food Retailing: A Pathway
   to Reducing Waste and Enhancing Efficiency
AU Köse ŞG; Kazancoglu I; Kazancoglu Y
TC 1
SO MECH MACH SCI
PY 2026
AB food waste arises in the supply chain s distribution , marketing , and
   consumption phases . retailers face problems related to food waste since it
   increases operating costs , causing savings and loss of profitability . due
   to food waste s environmental , economic , and social impacts , food
   retailers increasingly incorporating artificial intelligence based
   applications into their operations to increase efficiency and ensure
   sustainability . demand forecasting , inventory management and optimization
   , dynamic pricing , supply chain , and order optimization are some of the
   main artificial intelligence applications utilized to address food waste .
   in line with this purpose , the paper aims to highlight the importance of
   artificial intelligence for reducing food waste in retailing . this study
   focuses on how food retailers increasingly leverage artificial intelligence
   to reduce food waste and improve sustainability across their operations .
   this research was conducted through case study and these cases provide
   applications of artificial intelligence to the food retail industry
DE artificial intelligence; food retailing; food supply chain; food waste;
   sustainable food retailing
ID costs; economic and social effects; efficiency; food supply; food waste;
   inventory control; sales; supply chains; sustainable development; economic
   impacts; environmental economics; food retailers; food retailing; food
   supply chain; food waste; reducing waste; social impact; sustainable food
   retailing; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1142
AR Ling J, 2025, INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG, V18, P1, DOI
   10.25165/j.ijabe.20251803.9623
TI Integration of machine learning technologies in food flavor research:
   Current applications, challenges, and future perspectives
AU Ling J; Heldman DR
TC 8
SO INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG
PY 2025
AB flavor characteristics significantly influence consumer food preferences and
   purchasing behaviors , constituting a vital research domain in food science
   . while traditional flavor assessment approaches rely primarily on sensory
   evaluations and instrumental analyzes , they face inherent limitations in
   processing large scale datasets and generating comprehensive insights .
   advanced machine learning ( ml ) models have revolutionized flavor research
   through their high precision predictive capabilities , effectively
   addressing conventional methodological constraints . these computational
   approaches enable sophisticated and efficient flavor analysis by integrating
   multiple data dimensions , including chemical composition ( volatile and non
   volatile compounds ) , sensory attributes ( taste , aroma , texture ) ,
   temporal dynamics ( flavor release patterns ) , and consumer responses . ml
   models demonstrate remarkable capability in simultaneously processing
   diverse data types , such as gas chromatography mass spectrometry results ,
   sensory panel evaluations , and real time flavor release measurements , to
   predict consumer preferences and optimize flavor formulations . this review
   examines state of the art ml applications in flavor science , emphasizing
   crucial areas such as flavor database development , intelligent sensory
   detection , and food traceability . through systematic analysis of
   contemporary ml algorithms , this study critically evaluates their potential
   and limitations in decoding complex flavor dynamics , providing valuable
   insights for both researchers and industry practitioners while identifying
   promising directions for future technological innovations in food flavor
   analysis and prediction . the comprehensive synthesis presented here
   represents a significant contribution to the field by establishing a
   theoretical framework for ml driven flavor research and offering practical
   guidelines for the implementation of computational approaches in food flavor
   analysis . 2025 , chinese society of agricultural engineering
DE flavor perception; food flavor; machine learning; prediction

---

UT 1143
AR Zoellner C, 2026, FOOD PROT TRENDS, V46, P363, DOI 10.4315/FPT-25-029
TI Are You AI-Ready?  A Framework for Evaluating Artificial Intelligence
   Applications in Food Safety Programs
AU Zoellner C; Miller B
TC 0
SO FOOD PROT TRENDS
PY 2026
AB the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine learning
   technologies presents significant opportunities for enhancing food safety
   programs . successful implementation requires careful assessment of both
   technological capabilities and organizational readiness . the food systems
   assessment framework for evaluating ai ( foodsafe ai ) is a comprehensive
   tool designed to evaluate organizational preparedness for implementing ai
   automation in food safety applications . the framework assesses readiness
   across three business areas : ( 1 ) organizational buy in and business
   problem definition , ( 2 ) information technology infrastructure and data
   management capabilities , and ( 3 ) food safety program maturity and agility
   . it evaluates these areas against four stages of automation : information
   acquisition , information analysis , decision selection , and action
   implementation . the framework was implemented as a freely available excel
   based tool containing 32 assessment statements scored on a 4-point scale .
   three case studies demonstrate the framework s application , showcasing ai
   solutions for automated sampling and interventions , automated record review
   , and supply chain optimization through horizon scanning . results indicate
   that organizations must achieve high maturity across all three business
   areas to successfully implement each progressive stage of automation .
   foodsafe ai equips food safety professionals to drive collaboration on
   designing smarter food safety programs that both incorporate ai and align
   with their organizational capabilities and business objectives . 2026 ,
   international association for food protection

---

UT 1144
AR Correia A, 2025, J COMPUT SCI, V21, P851, DOI 10.3844/jcssp.2025.851.869
TI Computer Vision for Reducing Food Waste in an Institutional Canteen: A
   Literature Review and Performance Analysis
AU Correia A; Aidos C; Caldeira JMLP; Soares VNGJ
TC 0
SO J COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB food waste in today s society has been the subject of growing interest and
   discussion , given its economic , environmental , social , and nutritional
   implications . although food waste is present throughout the food supply
   chain , in developed countries it tends to be higher in the final stages of
   consumption ( e . g . , households and food services ) . this study focuses
   on institutional canteens , where food waste includes prepared meals that
   have not been sold ( i . e . , leftovers ) , as well as food served that is
   left on plates after the meal has been consumed ( i . e . , scraps ) . it
   presents a first step toward developing a prototype / solution based on
   computer vision techniques to identify and quantify food waste in an
   institutional canteen . it begins by introducing the related concepts . it
   then surveys the state of the art and categorizes existing solutions ,
   presenting their main characteristics , strengths , and limitations .
   inception v3 and resnet 50 are identified as the most promising computer
   vision techniques , and their performance has been evaluated . information
   is also provided on open questions and research directions in this area . (
   2025 ) , ( science publications )
DE computer vision; convolutional neural networks; food classification; food
   waste; inceptionv3; object detection; performance evaluation; resnet50;
   state of the art

---

UT 1145
AR Mia N, 2026, FOOD PHYS, V3, DOI 10.1016/j.foodp.2026.100089
TI Application of NIR spectroscopy with machine learning in the food industry:
   A comprehensive review
AU Mia N; Hashem MA; Halim MA; Tariq S; Ahamed Z
TC 3
SO FOOD PHYS
PY 2026
AB near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy has become a key enabling technology for
   rapid and nondestructive analysis in the food industry . however , the
   intrinsic complexity of nir spectral data , arising from overlapping
   absorption bands , scattering effects , and matrix dependent variability ,
   requires advanced data driven strategies for reliable interpretation . this
   review critically examines the integration of nir spectroscopy with machine
   learning approaches for food quality evaluation , authentication , and
   process monitoring , with emphasis on methodological rigor , robustness ,
   and industrial applicability . fundamental aspects of nir spectral
   generation , instrumentation , and measurement configurations are discussed
   alongside preprocessing strategies , highlighting matrix dependent selection
   , risks of over preprocessing , and interactions with modern machine
   learning and deep learning models . a systematic comparative framework is
   presented to evaluate classical chemometric and advanced machine learning
   algorithms in terms of data requirements , nonlinearity handling ,
   interpretability , computational cost , and suitability for industrial
   deployment . applications across major food sectors , including meat and
   fish , dairy , cereals and grains , fruits and vegetables , and processed or
   fermented foods , are reviewed with explicit distinction between laboratory
   scale studies and industrial scale implementations . particular attention is
   given to external validation , batch effects , instrument transferability ,
   model drift , and performance metrics relevant to quantitative nir
   applications . emerging trends such as deep learning , transfer learning ,
   portable and inline nir devices , process analytical technology ( pat ) ,
   and industry 4.0 integration are evaluated alongside practical challenges
   related to data scarcity , sensor stability , and regulatory acceptance .
   overall , this review provides a structured and application oriented
   perspective on advancing nirmachine learning systems toward robust ,
   interpretable , and regulatory compliant food quality control
DE deep learning; food quality; machine learning; near infrared spectroscopy;
   process monitoring

---

UT 1146
AR Fatima S, 2025, AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG, P133, DOI
   10.1039/9781837679119-00133
TI Applications of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) in the Food Processing
   Industry
AU Fatima S; Kumar V/2; Chaurasia S; Gupta A/2
TC 1
SO AI APPL FOOD PROCESS PACKAG
PY 2025
AB an artificial neural network ( ann ) is made by modeling artificial
   intelligence to resemble the functioning of a biological neural network .
   ann is shown to be an emerging method , in contrast to the computationally
   intensive analytically based techniques , for nonlinear computer modeling in
   food analysis . furthermore , anns provide a cutting edge approach that is
   commonly acknowledged when it comes to addressing engineering challenges in
   real world situations since it may result in a notable reduction in time and
   expense . moreover , food engineering nonlinear complicated processes are
   challenging to resolve using conventional techniques . ann modeling might be
   a useful tool to manage this . anns are widely used in the food processing
   sector because they are resilient , adaptable , fault tolerant , adaptive ,
   robust , and noise immune . as a result , this chapter finishes by
   discussing the similarities and differences between biological and
   artificial neural networks , the creation of ann projects , the many kinds
   of ann , and their use in the diverse food processing industry . the royal
   society of chemistry 2025
ID food industry; food processing; processed foods; % reductions; biological
   neural networks; computer models; cutting edges; engineering challenges;
   food analysis; food engineering; food processing industry; neural networks;
   real-world situations; neural networks

---

UT 1147
AR Zhao Z/1, 2025, ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL, V154, DOI
   10.1016/j.engappai.2025.110960
TI A survey on machine learning methods for food safety risk assessment:
   Approaches, challenges, and future outlook
AU Zhao Z/1; Dong J; Qi B; Duan N; Qian H
TC 14
SO ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL
PY 2025
AB food safety is essential for protecting health and supply chain management .
   food engineering plays a foundational role in ensuring food safety by
   developing innovative processes and technologies for quality control ,
   contamination monitoring , and risk mitigation . risk assessment is an
   effective means to ensure food safety , while machine learning ( ml ) is
   crucial in facilitating this process . it improves the accuracy of food
   quality inspection and the speed of risk assessments through rapid learning
   and processing of data . this survey provides a comprehensive analysis of
   commonly used supervised and unsupervised learning methods for food safety
   risk assessment , highlighting advancements , challenges , and future
   directions . supervised learning methods , such as bayesian network ( bn ) ,
   support vector machine ( svm ) , artificial neural network ( ann ) , etc . ,
   are successfully applied in prediction of food safety risks and improves the
   prediction accuracy and efficiency . unsupervised learning methods , such as
   k means , hierarchical cluster analysis ( hca ) , autoencoder ( ae ) , etc .
   , perform well for unlabeled or high dimensional food anomaly data . the
   review also addresses key challenges in the food field , such as class
   imbalance , the emergence of new and unexpected risks , and the integration
   of multi source heterogeneous data , including regulatory data , e commerce
   sentiment , and public opinion . the utilization of large language models (
   llms ) , few shot learning ( fsl ) , and knowledge graphs together offers
   promising solutions to key challenges in food safety risk assessment . this
   comprehensive survey emphasizes the transformative potential of ml in
   enhancing the field of food safety risk assessment and management
DE food safety; large language models; machine learning; risk assessment;
   supervised learning; unsupervised learning
ID computer control; damage detection; graph neural networks; hierarchical
   clustering; public risks; risk analysis; risk assessment; risk management;
   self-supervised learning; statistical process control; support vector
   regression; unsupervised learning; food safety; language model; large
   language model; machine learning methods; machine learning; on-machines;
   risks assessments; safety risk assessments; supervised learning methods;
   unsupervised learning method; semi-supervised learning

---

UT 1148
AR Cheng S, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V164, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105216
TI Deep learning in food Science: Innovative approaches for predicting and
   simulating food-derived protein–peptides
AU Cheng S; Chen Y/8; Cao Y; Huang X/2; Liu B; Liu M; Jiang S/1; Jiang L/3
TC 5
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : food derived peptides possess diverse bioactivities , and the
   prediction and simulation of proteinpeptide interactions are instrumental in
   identifying functional peptides in foods . however , traditional methods for
   predicting and simulating proteinpeptide interactions are often inefficient
   and costly , making them inadequate for the demands of modern high
   throughput screening and rational design . deep learning techniques can
   learn complex interaction patterns from large scale sequence and structural
   data , thereby facilitating the discovery and application of functional
   peptides in the food sector . scope and approach : this review
   systematically summarizes recent advances in the application of deep
   learning for the prediction and simulation of food derived proteinpeptide
   interactions . it focuses on the biological functions of food derived
   peptides , the development and utilization of protein and peptide databases
   , as well as the application of deep learning algorithms in the prediction
   of proteinpeptide structure and function , molecular docking , and molecular
   dynamics simulation . furthermore , current challenges and future
   perspectives in this field are discussed . key findings and conclusions :
   deep learning techniques have significantly improved the efficiency and
   accuracy of predicting and simulating food derived proteinpeptide
   interactions , facilitating the precise identification of active sites and
   structure activity relationships . by integrating advanced algorithms with
   comprehensive databases , researchers can efficiently screen and design
   functional peptides , thereby accelerating the innovation and development of
   functional foods . this review provides valuable insights for a deeper
   understanding of proteinpeptide interaction mechanisms and offers important
   reference for advancing the functional research and application development
   of food derived proteins and peptides
DE deep learning; food; prediction; protein-peptide; simulation
ID bioactivity; bioinformatics; biological systems; food chemistry; functional
   food; learning systems; molecular dynamics; peptides; structural design;
   deep learning; food science; food-derived peptides; functional peptides;
   functionals; learning techniques; prediction and simulations; protein-
   peptide interactions; proteins peptides; simulation; deep learning;
   forecasting

---

UT 1149
AR Bayer K, 2026, LARYNGOSCOPE, V136, P119, DOI 10.1002/lary.70069
TI Supervised Machine Learning Analysis of Food-Related Quality of Life Impact
   in Olfactory Dysfunction
AU Bayer K; Prem B; Suppinger P; Mueller CA; Liu DT
TC 0
SO LARYNGOSCOPE
PY 2026
AB objective : the aim of this study was to assess the effect of olfactory
   dysfunction ( od ) on quality of life ( qol ) using supervised machine
   learning to identify potential key factors . methods : this retrospective ,
   cross sectional study included 260 ( 63.5 % women ) patients with a mean age
   of 43.05 ( sd = 17.06 ) years who reported od of various causes . olfactory
   function was assessed using the tdi sniffin sticks test ( mean tdi scores of
   22.51 ( sd = 8.48 ) ) and od related qol was measured using the
   questionnaire of olfactory dysfunction negative statements ( qod ns ) . a
   random forest model was used to determine the most significant factors for
   the prediction of overall od related qol impairment . results : most
   influential for the prediction of qol were food related qod ns statements
   with statement 7 ( i . e . , ' the changes in my sense of smell annoy me
   when i eat ' ) being most influential ( percentage increase in mean squared
   error = % incmse 16.02 ) and statement 14 ( i . e . , ' because of the
   difficulties with smelling , i am scared of getting exposed to certain
   dangers ( e . g . , gas , rotten food ) ' ) being least influential ( %
   incmse 0.09 ) . we also found significantly better tdi scores ( h ( 9 ) =
   45.31 , p < 0.001 ) in patients with covid 19-associated od compared to
   posttraumatic , congenital , and iatrogenic od . conclusion : od related qol
   seems to be predominantly affected by food related difficulties rather than
   other factors , highlighting the importance of food for patients with od and
   the important role of patients subjective perception of the sense of smell
   when assessing qol . level of evidence : 4 . 2025 the author ( s ) . the
   laryngoscope published by wiley periodicals llc on behalf of the american
   laryngological , rhinological and otological society , inc .
DE olfactory dysfunction; qod-ns; quality of life; sense of smell; tdi
ID adult; aged; cross-sectional studies; female; food; humans; male; middle
   aged; olfaction disorders; quality of life; retrospective studies; smell;
   supervised machine learning; surveys and questionnaires; drug; toxin; adult;
   anosmia; article; coronavirus disease 2019; cross-sectional study; feeding
   behavior; female; human; iatrogenic disease; idiopathic disease; male;
   neurologic disease; newborn disease; nose disease; nose injury; prediction;
   quality of life; questionnaire; random forest; retrospective study; scoring
   system; smelling; smelling disorder; supervised machine learning; aged;
   diagnosis; etiology; food; middle aged; odor; pathophysiology; psychology;
   smelling disorder

---

UT 1150
AR Barbosa MDO, 2025, APPL SCI, V15, DOI 10.3390/app15137024
TI YOLOv8m for Automated Pepper Variety Identification: Improving Accuracy with
   Data Augmentation
AU Barbosa MDO; Aguiar FPL; Sousa SDS; Cordeiro LDS; Nääs IDA; Okano MT
TC 4
SO APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB featured application : the study indicates the practical application of
   yolov8m , a deep learning architecture , for real time identification and
   classification of pepper varieties , providing a practical solution for
   automating quality control and post harvest sorting processes in food supply
   chains . this research addresses the critical need for an efficient and
   precise identification of capsicum spp . fruit varieties within the post
   harvest contexts to enhance quality control and ensure consumer satisfaction
   . employing the yolov8m convolutional neural network , the study identified
   eight distinct pepper varieties : pimento , bode , cambuci , chili , fidalga
   , habanero , jalapeno , and scotch bonnet . a dataset comprising 1476
   annotated images was utilized and significantly expanded through data
   augmentation techniques , including rotation , flipping , and contrast
   adjustments . comparative analysis reveals that training with the augmented
   dataset yielded significant improvements across key performance indicators ,
   particularly in box precision , recall , and mean average precision ( map50
   and map95 ) , underscoring the effectiveness of data augmentation . these
   findings underscore the considerable potential of cnns to advance the
   agrifood sector through increased automation and efficiency . while
   acknowledging the constraints of a controlled image dataset , subsequent
   research should prioritize expanding the dataset and conducting real world
   testing to confirm the model s robustness across various environmental
   factors . this study contributes to the field by illustrating the
   application of deep learning methodologies to enhance agricultural
   productivity and inform decision making
DE computer vision in food supply; deep learning; object detection; pepper
   classification; yolov8m
ID computer vision; data accuracy; decision making; food supply; learning
   systems; quality control; statistical tests; computer vision in food supply;
   data augmentation; deep learning; learning architectures; objects detection;
   pepper classification; post-harvest; real time identification; varieties
   identifications; yolov8m; deep learning

---

UT 1151
AR Wu Q, 2026, J FUTUR FOODS, V6, P519, DOI 10.1016/j.jfutfo.2024.12.002
TI Advances in Data Mining for Food Flavor Analysis: A Comprehensive Review of
   Techniques, Applications and Future Directions
AU Wu Q; Yuan J; Zhou J/1; Yu S/2; Xin X; Liu J/3; Cui X/1
TC 2
SO J FUTUR FOODS
PY 2026
AB in the field of food flavor , there exists a substantial amount of
   structured and unstructured data originating from flavoromics , databases ,
   and social media . to effectively extract valuable information from these
   diverse data sources and promote rational application , extensive data
   mining efforts have been undertaken . this review provides a systematic
   overview of data mining in the context of food flavor and summarizes various
   multivariate data processing strategies . this review examines a wide array
   of current research in flavoromics and discuss pre processing methods
   designed to address challenges such as small dataset sizes and complex
   manual data preparation . furthermore , this review summarizes innovative
   approaches based on artificial intelligence and large language models ,
   elucidating their prospective applications in flavor molecules prediction
   and recipes development . lastly , we discuss the challenges and
   opportunities of applying data mining on flavor research
DE data integration; flavor; recipes development; sensory analysis; text mining
ID artificial intelligence; data base; data integration; data mining; data
   processing; flavor; food; human; large language model; prediction;
   prescription; review; sensory analysis; social media; systematic review

---

UT 1152
AR Panindre P, 2025, INT CONF MOB COMPUT SUSTAIN INFORMATICS ICMCSI - PROC,
   P1648, DOI 10.1109/ICMCSI64620.2025.10883519
TI Deep Learning Framework for Food Item Recognition and Nutrition Assessment
AU Panindre P; Thummalapalli PK; Mandal T; Kumar S
TC 2
SO INT CONF MOB COMPUT SUSTAIN INFORMATICS ICMCSI - PROC
PY 2025
AB the increasing prevalence of dietary related health conditions necessitates
   the development of precise , automated nutritional analysis systems
   leveraging advancements in artificial intelligence . this paper presents a
   novel approach to food image analysis using a yolov8 object detection model
   and a custom nutritional assessment , to provide detailed nutritional
   information from food images . the system ingests user uploaded food images
   and employs advanced preprocessing pipelines to standardize the input . the
   yolov8 model , implemented via onnx runtime , identifies food items and
   delineates them in bounding boxes with high confidence . to address dataset
   heterogeneity , novel algorithms for class merging , underrepresented class
   removal , and dynamic class weighting were devised , culminating in a
   refined dataset of 95,000 instances across 214 food categories . nutritional
   values , including macronutrient breakdowns , are derived through a custom
   volumetric computation function , correlating plate areas occupied by
   detected items with database derived density metrics . experimental
   evaluations reveal superior model performance , achieving mean average
   precision ( map ) scores of 0.7941 at iou=0.5 . qualitative analyzes further
   validate the system s efficacy under diverse real world conditions such as
   overlapping objects and inconsistent lighting . deployed on heroku as a
   flask web application , this system exhibits computational efficiency and
   scalability , supporting real time dietary monitoring through mobile devices
   . the proposed system serves as a proof of concept that can be improved to
   provide a robust , scientifically grounded tool for health management by
   bridging gaps between ai capabilities and practical nutritional needs , with
   potential extensions to broader healthcare applications
DE ai-driven dietary monitoring; image analysis; yolov8 object detection
ID nutrition; ai-driven dietary monitoring; food image; health condition; image
   analyze; image analysis; item recognition; learning frameworks; nutrition
   assessments; objects detection; yolov8 object detection; deep learning

---

UT 1153
AR Conza ML, 2025, PROC - EUROMICRO INT CONF PARALLEL DISTRIB NETWORK-BASED
   PROCESS PDP, P283, DOI 10.1109/PDP66500.2025.00046
TI Enhancing Employee Health Through an Experimental Diet: Insights from
   Machine Learning Analysis
AU Conza ML; Fioretto S; Masciari E; Napolitano EV
TC 2
SO PROC - EUROMICRO INT CONF PARALLEL DISTRIB NETWORK-BASED PROCESS PDP
PY 2025
AB the state of health of workers is becoming increasingly important both for
   the performance of the company and for the lives of the workers . this paper
   focuses on the experiences of antur srl . this company implemented a
   fiveyear protocol ( 2020-2024 ) with the aim of improving the wellbeing of
   employees and the performance of the company . this was achieved by
   integrating a series of tailored nutritional strategies , postural exercises
   , music therapy and stress reduction techniques into the workplace . the
   project involved over 12 , 000 employees from 40 companies across a range of
   industries and roles . data was collected through bio impedance analysis (
   bia ) and detailed medical and nutritional histories . a self organising map
   ( som ) network was then used to cluster employees and analyze health trends
   over time . the results showed significant improvements , including reduced
   absenteeism , increased productivity and improved environmental , social and
   governance ( esg ) sustainability , therefore underlining the value of
   comprehensive workplace health initiatives
DE artificial neural network; employee health; machine learning; nutrition
ID employee health; machine learning; music therapy; neural networks;
   performance; reduction techniques; state of health; stress reduction; well
   being; workers; nutrition

---

UT 1154
AR Feng J, 2026, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V12, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2026.101406
TI Exploring the broad spectrum of machine learning technologies in the food
   sector: A comprehensive review of techniques and practical applications
AU Feng J; Zheng F; Zhang Y; Zeng X/1; Wang Z/2; Liang J; Wang Z/1; Ji L; Shen
   Q
TC 0
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB in the contemporary era , the digital revolution is fundamentally
   transforming our modes of living , working and thinking by optimizing
   processes , enabling deeper insights discovery and enhancing decision making
   . the realization of this immense potential lies in the ability to extract
   valuable information from large datasets through machine learning ( ml ) ,
   thereby generating data driven insights , informed decisions and accurate
   predictions . by leveraging the powerful modeling capabilities of ml ,
   particularly in handling complex high dimensional data , the food industry
   can more accurately predict or identify potential quality issues , safety
   risks and shifts in consumer trends . in this review , the basic principles
   of ml in data processing , model training and performance evaluation were
   introduced , followed by a comprehensive overview of ml applications across
   various food industry scenarios , including production optimization , origin
   traceability , adulteration detection , quality control , pathogen or
   foreign objects identification , preservation techniques , supply chain
   management , foods innovation and consumption trends . the types of data
   processing , feature extraction and model algorithms employed in these
   retrieved studies are systematically categorized and discussed , to assist
   readers in selecting appropriate algorithms for solving practical problems
   that may be encountered in food industry . despite substantial progress in
   both theoretical foundation and practical applications of ml technique ,
   there are still challenges in terms of data accessibility , model robustness
   and results interpretability . addressing these issues is essential for
   fully realizing the potential benefits that ml offers to food industry . it
   is expected that the insights presented will contribute to the advancement
   of ml based artificial intelligence technologies for smart food industry
   applications . 2026 published by elsevier b.v .
DE algorithms; food industry; food quality; intelligent technology; machine
   learning
ID algorithm; artificial intelligence; consumer; data processing; decision
   making; drug analysis; electric potential; feature extraction; food
   industry; food quality; human; infectious agent; machine learning; machine
   learning software; open access publishing; prediction; quality control;
   review; spectrometer; supply chain management

---

UT 1155
AR Brar DS, 2026, J FUTUR FOODS, V6, P1000, DOI 10.1016/j.jfutfo.2025.02.008
TI Deep neural networks for adulteration detection in red chilli powder: a
   pillar for Food Quality 4.0
AU Brar DS; Singh B/2; Nanda V
TC 3
SO J FUTUR FOODS
PY 2026
AB red chili powder ( rcp ) is a versatile spice accepted globally in diverse
   culinary products due to its distinct pungent characteristics and red color
   . the higher market demand makes the spice vulnerable to unethical mixing ,
   so its quality assessment is crucial . the non destructive application of
   computer vision for measuring food adulteration has always attracted
   researchers and industry due to its robustness and feasibility . following
   the current era of food quality 4.0 and artificial intelligence , this study
   follows an approach based on 1d convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) and 2d
   cnn models for detecting rcp adulteration . the performance evaluation
   metrics are used to analyze the efficiency of these models . the histogram
   features from the lab color space trained on the 1d cnn model ( bs 40 and
   epoch 100 ) show an accuracy of 84.56 % . on the other hand , the 2d cnn
   model densenet 121 ( adamw and bs 30 ) also shows a test accuracy of 84.62 %
   . from the observations of this study , it is concluded that cnn models can
   be a promising tool for solving the adulteration detection problem in food
   quality evaluation . further , internet of things based systems can be
   developed to aid the industry and government agencies in monitoring the
   quality of rcp to harness the unethical practices of food adulteration
DE deep learning convolutional neural networks food adulteration food quality
   40 spices
ID 1d convolutional neural network; 2d convolutional neural network; article;
   controlled study; convolutional neural network; densenet; efficientnet; food
   quality; histogram; measurement accuracy; measurement precision; mobilenet;
   nonhuman; red chili powder; residual neural network; sensitivity and
   specificity; spice; visual geometry group

---

UT 1156
AR Ayoub A, 2026, PROCESS, V14, DOI 10.3390/pr14030513
TI Integration of Artificial Intelligence in Food Processing Technologies
AU Ayoub A
TC 1
SO PROCESS
PY 2026
AB the food processing industry is undergoing a profound transformation with
   the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , evolving from
   traditional automation to intelligent , adaptive systems aligned with
   industry 5.0 principles . this review examines ai s role across the food
   value chain , including supply chain management , quality control , process
   optimization in key unit operations , and emerging areas . recent
   advancements in machine learning ( ml ) , computer vision , and predictive
   analytics have significantly improved detection in food processing ,
   achieving accuracy exceeding 98 % . these technologies have also contributed
   to energy savings of 1520 % and reduced waste through real time process
   optimization and predictive maintenance . the integration of blockchain and
   internet of things ( iot ) technologies further strengthens traceability and
   sustainability across the supply chain , while generative ai accelerates the
   development of novel food products . despite these benefits , several
   challenges persist , including substantial implementation costs ,
   heterogeneous data sources , ethical considerations related to workforce
   displacement , and the opaque , ' black box ' nature of many ai models .
   moreover , the effectiveness of ai solutions remains context dependent .
   some studies report only marginal improvements in dynamic or data poor
   environments . looking ahead , the sector is expected to embrace autonomous
   manufacturing , edge computing , and bio computing , with projections
   indicating that the ai market in food processing could approach $ 90 billion
   by 2030
DE drum dryer; extrusion; fermentation; food engineering; food processing; food
   quality; spry dryer; supply chain
ID adaptive systems; artificial intelligence; dryers ( equipment ); food
   supply; green computing; predictive analytics; predictive maintenance;
   process control; processed foods; supply chain management; thermal
   processing ( foods ); chain management; drum dryer; food engineering; food
   processing industry; food processing technology; food quality; intelligent-
   adaptive systems; process optimization; spry dryer; value chains; supply
   chains

---

UT 1157
AR Vyshnavi KS, 2025, PROC INT CONF INVEN RES COMPUT APPL ICIRCA, P1521, DOI
   10.1109/ICIRCA65293.2025.11089828
TI A Deep Learning Framework for Recipe Generation from Multi Input Food Data
AU Vyshnavi KS; Thaniya S; Fancy C
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INVEN RES COMPUT APPL ICIRCA
PY 2025
AB in a world with food innovation entwined in artificial intelligence , we
   introduce here an intelligent web based system proposing customized recipes
   on the basis of a deep learning model based on convolutional neural networks
   ( cnn ) . this system enables people to either add a list of ingredients or
   even add a photograph of a meal , from where the model distinguishes the
   dish and gives instructions on how to cook it , along with approximate
   calorie content , as well as a downloadable list for shopping . apart from
   its technical efficiency , our application features a flavor memories module
   to enable users to save personal and emotional memories that relate to food
   , making meals a meaningful experience . the community recipes module
   provides an active platform for cultural exchange to share , like , comment
   , and discover global recipes . also , an integrated chatbot improves
   usability by helping users with recipe cooking , nutrition monitoring , and
   app navigation in general . this system unites technology and human
   experience , making recipe discovery a personalized , socially interactive ,
   and emotionally rich dining experience . this paper outlines the model
   structure , system architecture , user flow , and the way cnn driven model
   is revolutionizing the way we find and relate to each other through food
DE chatbot assistant; cnn model; community-driven recipe; flavor memories;
   grocery list automation; image-based prediction
ID behavioral research; chatbots; computer architecture; convolutional neural
   networks; cooking; food ingredients; human computer interaction; intelligent
   systems; learning systems; chatbot assistant; chatbots; community-driven
   recipe; convolutional neural network; convolutional neural network model;
   flavor memory; grocery list automation; image-based; image-based prediction;
   neural network model; deep neural networks

---

UT 1158
AR Deepa J, 2025, PROC - INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS, P437,
   DOI 10.1109/ICSSAS66150.2025.11081341
TI Deep Learning for Food Analysis: Real-Time Food Identification and Calorie
   Estimation with MobileNet
AU Deepa J; Jagadeesh N; Lakshmi Prasad C; Teja Kumar M
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS
PY 2025
AB the modern lifestyle s reliance on convenience food has produced a huge
   health concern , with consumers lacking real time understanding of the
   nutritional value of their meals , resulting in erroneous dietary decisions
   and contributing to rising rates of obesity , diabetes , and heart disease .
   traditional monitoring approaches , such as food diaries and manual
   nutritional lookups , have proven ineffective due to their time consuming
   nature , high user effort requirements , erroneous portion estimates , and
   lack of real time feedback , resulting in low user adherence . deep learning
   driven food recognition and calorie estimate utilizing the mobilenet
   architecture provide more and exact solution for nutritional analysis . this
   tech utilizes convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) to provide accurate real
   time predictions for food categories and calorie content . the data set
   covers a variety of foods , such as breakfast foods , fruits , snacks , main
   courses , drinks , and desserts , providing the model with broad
   applicability across many types of foods . the estimate calorie function
   improves accuracy by combining recognized food images with a nutritional
   database , providing users with trusted diet advice
DE calorie estimation; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food
   recognition; mobilenet
ID beverages; deep neural networks; nutrition; calorie estimations; convenience
   food; convolutional neural network; deep learning; food analysis; food
   recognition; health concerns; mobilenet; nutritional value; real- time;
   convolution

---

UT 1159
AR Wang Y/12, 2025, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V148, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2025.108596
TI Machine learning advances in food detection technologies
AU Wang Y/12; Wang Y/15; Wang A; Humayun M; Bououdina M
TC 4
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2025
AB with the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence and the growing
   emphasis on food safety , the integration of food inspection technologies
   and machine learning has opened up innovative avenues . this review
   introduces several mainstream machine learning algorithms and key techniques
   in food inspection , followed by a detailed elaboration on the progress in
   machine learning assisted food safety detection applications . these
   primarily include nutritional analysis , flavor characteristic analysis ,
   adulteration detection , and freshness assessment . the synergy between
   these technologies not only facilitates automated and intelligent inspection
   processes but also enables efficient management and analysis of large
   volumes of data generated by various detection instruments . this
   integration serves as a core driver in transitioning the field from
   laboratory research to broad industrial application , laying a solid
   foundation for building an intelligent and digitized modern food quality
   control system . although the application of artificial intelligence and
   machine learning in the food industry can enhance food integrity standards ,
   it also faces various challenges and difficulties . finally , the review
   summarizes current challenges , synthesizes the state of research , and
   outlines future development prospects to fully leverage their potential in
   the food industry
DE detection technology; food; integration; machine learning; models design

---

UT 1160
AR Ibarra-Muñoz LA, 2025, FOOD HUMANIT, V5, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2025.100818
TI Artificial intelligence in the food and bioprocess industries: Addressing
   food security challenges
AU Ibarra-Muñoz LA; Resendiz-Acosta GG; Muñoz-García R; Alvarado-Mata LY; Sosa-
   Martínez JD; Morales-Oyervides L; Montañez J; Balagurusamy N
TC 1
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2025
AB exponential population growth and increasing global food demand present
   significant challenges to food security , including risk of food shortages ,
   declining quality and adverse environmental consequences associated with
   food production . thus , emerging technologies are being applied to enhance
   and address challenges within production and safety of food . in this review
   , the potential of artificial intelligence ( ai ) is being explored as an
   emerging tool toward food industry and bioprocess concerns such as
   fermentation parameters , quality control contamination detection , food
   safety management and bioprocess optimization . by leveraging advanced ai
   techniques , such as machine learning ( ml ) , deep learning ( dl ) ,
   artificial neural networks ( ann ) , and generative adversarial networks (
   gan ) . however ethical implications , such as transparency , liability , ai
   autonomy and corporation s awareness , remain critical . despite its
   transformative potential , challenges like scalability , data availability ,
   and public perception must be addressed for ai full integration into the
   food industry . future perspectives highlight ai s expanding role in
   preproduction , processing , and distribution , additionally ai is supported
   by advancements in synthetic biology and predictive modeling
DE bioprocess optimization; food safety; food security; generative artificial
   intelligence; predictive artificial intelligence

---

UT 1161
AR Jan B, 2025, NUTR, V50, DOI 10.1186/s41110-025-00392-w
TI Role of artificial intelligence in food and agriculture industries: an
   updated review
AU Jan B; Mohapatra S/1; Samal M; Choudhary B; Basist P
TC 0
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB purpose : this study investigates the integration of artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) , including deep learning ( dl ) and machine learning ( ml ) , across
   the agri food value chain . it aims to explore how ai is transforming
   agriculture and food industries by enhancing sustainability , efficiency ,
   and precision , while addressing global food security and environmental
   challenges . methods : a comprehensive review of recent literature and
   technological advancements was conducted , focusing on ai applications in
   agriculture , food processing , packaging , safety , fraud detection ,
   personalized nutrition , and sensory evaluation . various ai models and
   their sector specific implementations were analyzed to assess their impact
   and potential . results : ai has evolved as a transformative tool in the
   agri food sector . applications include automated harvesting , predictive
   crop modeling , pest and disease detection , intelligent irrigation , supply
   chain optimization , and quality control . the study highlights how ai
   driven solutions are improving traceability , reducing waste , and enabling
   data driven decision making across the food system . conclusion : the
   convergence of modern ai technologies with traditional agricultural
   practices is driving a transformative change in the global food industry .
   urgent adoption of ai by stakeholders , industries , and academia is
   essential to meet nutritional demands , ensure food safety , and align with
   sustainability goals . this study serves as a strategic reference for
   leveraging ai to advance and sustain the agri food ecosystem
DE agriculture; artificial intelligence; deep learning; food industries;
   machine learning
ID agriculture; artificial intelligence; artificial intelligence software;
   decision making; deep learning; ecosystem; food; food industry; food
   processing; food safety; food security; fraud; human; machine learning;
   packaging; personalized nutrition; quality control; review; sensory
   evaluation

---

UT 1162
AR Naseem S, 2025, FOOD CONTROL, V175, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2025.111292
TI The role of artificial intelligence in advancing food safety: A strategic
   path to zero contamination
AU Naseem S; Rizwan M
TC 47
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2025
AB food safety is advancing toward zero contamination using artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) for supply chain management , quality control ,
   contamination detection , and consumer safety . ai integrates with
   technologies like the internet of things ( iot ) , blockchain , and genomics
   to enhance traceability , predictive analytics , and pathogen identification
   across the food supply chain . ai applications in food safety range from
   detecting contaminants and monitoring supply chains to predicting potential
   risks and optimizing quality control processes . to attain zero
   contamination , the role of ai will be central in creating resilient ,
   responsive , and efficient food safety systems that protect public health
   and foster consumer trust . ai promises significant benefits in mitigating
   risks and ensuring food integrity , challenges , including data quality ,
   regulatory frameworks , and ethical considerations , require careful
   attention . continuous innovation and strategic investments are crucial for
   realizing ai s full potential in addressing evolving food safety challenges
   and promoting global food security . future research directions involve
   enhancing data sharing practices , implementing transparent ai systems , and
   fostering interdisciplinary collaborations . these collaborations are keys
   to maximizing ai s potential in safeguarding public health and fostering a
   resilient food system
DE artificial intelligence; food chain supply; food safety; predictive models;
   zero contamination

---

UT 1163
AR Sanatbyek A, 2025, IEEE ACCESS, V13, P152033, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3603287
TI A Multitask Deep Learning Model for Food Scene Recognition and Portion
   Estimation—the Food Portion Benchmark (FPB) Dataset
AU Sanatbyek A; Rakhimzhanova T; Nurmanova B; Omarova Z; Rakhmankulova A;
   Orazbayev R; Varol HA; Chan MY
TC 2
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2025
AB deep learning based approaches have achieved remarkable success in various
   image based dietary assessment applications , including food detection and
   estimating portion sizes . however , most existing methods address these
   tasks separately , limiting their practical applicability in real world
   scenarios where simultaneous processing is required . this study presents an
   end to end multi task method that integrates food detection and portion size
   estimation within a single model , leveraging the state of the art yolov12
   architecture . to support this approach , this paper introduces the food
   portion benchmark ( fpb ) dataset a comprehensive and diverse collection
   comprising 14,083 images across 138 food classes , each with manually
   annotated bounding boxes and laboratory measured component weights . to
   promote reproducibility and standardization , a public food ai leaderboard
   has been deployed on hugging face , enabling researchers to benchmark their
   models for detection and weight estimation on the fpb dataset . in addition
   , this work provides pre trained model weights and model generated
   annotations , eliminating the need for researchers to perform their own
   resource intensive measurements and annotations of food items . the proposed
   method achieves state of the art performance , with a mean average precision
   ( map50 ) of 0.978 for food detection and a mean absolute error ( mae ) of
   only 90.95 grams for portion size estimation on the fpb test set . these
   results highlight the effectiveness and practicality of an integrated model
   for accurate and comprehensive dietary analysis . it is anticipated that
   this fpb dataset and its model will serve as a foundational reference for
   dietary assessment , particularly for culturally relevant foods in central
   asia
DE ai in nutrition; deep learning; dietary assessment; food datasets; food
   detection; food portion estimation; food weight estimation; image-based food
   analysis; multi-task learning
ID food ingredients; learning systems; multi-task learning; nutrition; size
   determination; statistical tests; ai in nutrition; deep learning; dietary
   assessments; food analysis; food dataset; food detection; food portion
   estimation; food weight estimation; image-based; image-based food analyze;
   multi-task learning; weights estimation; deep learning

---

UT 1164
AR Huang K, 2026, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V25, DOI 10.1111/1541-4337.70486
TI Artificial Intelligence for Food Packaging: A Life Cycle–Oriented Review of
   Material Performance, Functionality, Safety, and Sustainability
AU Huang K; Lin Z/1; Wang Y; Wang X/6
TC 0
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) has been increasingly applied to address
   challenges in food packaging , including food waste , sustainability , and
   real time quality assurance . however , existing studies are often confined
   to specific applications , with limited integration across different stages
   of the packaging life cycle and insufficient linkage between material
   performance , functionality , and system level outcomes . this review
   systematically analyzes peer reviewed studies retrieved from the web of
   science core collection ( 20212025 ) , selected based on their relevance to
   ai applications in food packaging , including material performance , safety
   , and life cycle management . a life cycleoriented framework is proposed ,
   linking major ai paradigms ( supervised , unsupervised , reinforcement ,
   deep learning , and hybrid models ) to six key domains : material design ,
   production optimization , food quality prediction , safety assurance , smart
   labeling and traceability , and recycling . within this framework , ai
   supports data driven prediction , monitoring , and decision making , whereas
   hybrid models improve robustness in complex , multifactor systems . despite
   challenges related to data quality , model generalization , and regulatory
   acceptance , ai driven packaging systems may support a transition from
   passive containment toward more adaptive and data informed solutions that
   improve efficiency , sustainability , and consumer trust . 2026 institute of
   food technologists .
DE life cycle optimization; machine learning; quality prediction; safety
   assessment; smart packaging
ID artificial intelligence; food packaging; food safety; recycling; artificial
   life; decision making; deep learning; food safety; forecasting; life cycle;
   life cycle assessment; packaging; packaging machines; packaging materials;
   quality assurance; safety engineering; sustainable development; food
   packaging; food waste; hybrid model; life cycle optimization; machine
   learning; material performance; optimizations; quality prediction; safety
   assessments; smart packaging; artificial intelligence; food packaging; food
   safety; procedures; recycling; learning systems

---

UT 1165
AR Vedavathi N, 2025, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V84, P14047, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-024-19450-y
TI HCBiL-DMN: an effective food infestation detection from stored food grains
   using deep learning model
AU Vedavathi N; Suhas Bharadwaj R
TC 0
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2025
AB food infestation detection is more important for food safety and health
   concerns . it is a challenging task to separate the grains into infested or
   non infested . it is found that in the existing system , there is no
   effective approach for the early detection of pest populations and for
   classifying crops as infested or non infested . therefore , the
   identification and categorization of early stage grain infestations is in
   high demand . to address the above problem , this research presents a better
   technique for detecting and classifying infested and non infested grains .
   initially , the maize , wheat and olive image datasets are collected , which
   are then pre processed using data normalization and adaptive wiener
   filtering ( adwf ) approach to improve the excellence of the input images .
   image quality helps in achieving better performance and also helps in
   analyzing the quality of food grains effectively . feature extraction is
   done using the dense residual pyramidal dilated convolution network ( dr
   pdcnet ) technique , and feature selection is done using the linear
   discriminant coati optimization ( ld coa ) algorithm . the hybrid
   convolutional bi lstm based deep maxout network ( hcbil dmn ) model is used
   to detect the infected food grains in the preserved food grains with high
   accuracy . this research explores the potential and future possibilities for
   using technology to ensure the quality , assessment , and monitoring of
   nutritional grains during storage . the performance results are achieved
   with 98.3 % accuracy , 99.12 % recall , 98.65 % precision , 98.02 % mcc ,
   and 99.32 % f1 score
DE adaptive wiener filtering; coati optimization; convolutional deep maxout
   network; linear discriminant; residual dense network
ID adaptive filtering; adaptive filters; convolutional neural networks; digital
   storage; feature extraction; grain ( agricultural product ); image
   enhancement; long short-term memory; adaptive wiener filtering; coati
   optimization; convolutional deep maxout network; dense network; food grain;
   linear discriminants; optimizations; performance; residual dense network;
   wiener filtering; convolution

---

UT 1166
AR Mjahad A, 2025, APPL SCI, V15, DOI 10.3390/app15020733
TI Optimizing Image Feature Extraction with Convolutional Neural Networks for
   Chicken Meat Detection Applications
AU Mjahad A; Polo-Aguado A; Llorens-Serrano L; Rosado-Muñoz A
TC 10
SO APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB the food industry continuously prioritizes methods and technologies to
   ensure product quality and safety . traditional approaches , which rely on
   conventional algorithms that utilize predefined features , have exhibited
   limitations in representing the intricate characteristics of food items .
   recently , a significant shift has emerged with the introduction of
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) . these networks have emerged as
   powerful and versatile tools for feature extraction , standing out as a
   preferred choice in the field of deep learning . the main objective of this
   study is to evaluate the effectiveness of convolutional neural networks (
   cnns ) when applied to the classification of chicken meat products by
   comparing different image preprocessing approaches . this study was carried
   out in three phases . in the first phase , the original images were used
   without applying traditional filters or color modifications , processing
   them solely with a cnn . in the second phase , color filters were applied to
   help separate the images based on their chromatic characteristics , while
   still using a cnn for processing . finally , in the third phase , additional
   filters , such as histogram of oriented gradients ( hog ) , local binary
   pattern ( lbp ) , and saliency , were incorporated to extract complementary
   features from the images , without discontinuing the use of a cnn for
   processing . experimental images , sourced from the pygsa group databases ,
   underwent preprocessing using these filters before being input into a cnn
   based classification architecture . the results show that the developed
   models outperformed conventional methods , significantly improving the
   ability to differentiate between chicken meat types , such as yellow wing ,
   white wing , yellow thigh , and white thigh , with the training accuracy
   reaching 100 % . this highlights the potential of cnns , especially when
   combined with advanced architectures , for efficient detection and analysis
   of complex food matrices . in conclusion , these techniques can be applied
   to food quality control and other detection and analysis domains
DE chicken meat; convolutional neural network; data augmentation; deep learning
   in food analysis; feature extraction; food quality control; image filters;
   image preprocessing; localization
ID deep neural networks; image enhancement; image retrieval; chicken meat;
   convolutional neural network; data augmentation; deep learning in food
   analyze; features extraction; food analysis; food quality controls; image
   filters; image preprocessing; localization; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1167
AR Xue R, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15010022
TI Artificial Intelligence-Driven Food Safety: Decoding Gut Microbiota-Mediated
   Health Effects of Non-Microbial Contaminants
AU Xue R; Zong X; Jiang X; You G; Wei Y; Guo B
TC 3
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB a wide range of non microbial contaminants such as heavy metals , pesticide
   residues , antibiotics , as well emerging foodborne contaminants like micro
   and nanoplastics and persistent organic pollutants can enter the human body
   through daily diet and exert subtle yet chronic effects that are
   increasingly recognized to be gut microbiota dependent . however , the
   relationships among multi contaminant exposure profiles , dynamic microbial
   community structures , microbial metabolites , and diverse clinical or
   subclinical phenotypes are highly non linear and multidimensional , posing
   major challenges to traditional analytical approaches . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) is emerging as a powerful tool to untangle the complex
   interactions between foodborne non microbial contaminants , the gut
   microbiota , and host health . this review synthesizes current knowledge on
   how key classes of non microbial food contaminants modulate gut microbial
   composition and function , and how these alterations , in turn , influence
   intestinal barrier integrity , immune homeostasis , metabolic regulation ,
   and systemic disease risk . we then highlight recent advances in the
   application of ai techniques , including machine learning ( ml ) , deep
   learning ( dl ) , and network based methods , to integrate multi omics and
   exposure data , identify microbiota and metabolite signatures of specific
   contaminants , and infer potential causal pathways within '
   contaminantmicrobiotahost ' axes . finally , we discuss current limitations
   , such as data heterogeneity , small sample bias , and interpretability gaps
   , and propose future directions for building standardized datasets ,
   explainable ai frameworks , and human relevant experimental validation
   pipelines . overall , ai enabled analysis offers a promising avenue to
   refine food safety risk assessment , support precision nutrition strategies
   , and develop microbiota targeted interventions against non microbial food
   contaminants
DE artificial intelligence; gut microbiota; microbiome toxicology; non-
   microbial food contaminants
ID antibiotic agent; heavy metal; nanoplastic; artificial intelligence;
   community structure; decoding; deep learning; drug toxicity; explainable
   artificial intelligence; food contamination; food safety; homeostasis;
   human; intestine; intestine flora; machine learning; metabolic regulation;
   metabolite; microbial community; microbiome; microflora; multiomics;
   nonhuman; persistent organic pollutant; pesticide residue; phenotype;
   review; risk assessment; systemic disease

---

UT 1168
AR Muthuram A, 2025, AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND, P37, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-9884-5.ch002
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food and Agriculture: Driving Sustainability,
   Efficiency, and Innovation
AU Muthuram A; Sukanya M; Alfiya S; Monica GK; Jebamalar GB; Maheswari B;
   Girija P
TC 0
SO AI INNOV IMPROV FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB ai is gradually becoming the most powerful tool in the food and agriculture
   industries due to the possibility of making informed decisions on various
   processes in the supply chain . machine learning , computer vision , and
   robotics are widely used in agriculture to increase productivity , optimize
   crop yields , food safety , and apply automatization in the process of food
   processing as well as provide individualized nutrition and to make the food
   industry more sustainable and effective . this survey aims at discussing the
   main domains of application of ai techniques , major applications of ai in
   these domains , the main obstacles to the penetration of ai in different
   areas and the directions of further research . the chapter focuses on how ai
   will impact smart agriculture and the food industry , and how it will help
   in solving the global problem of food security and resource management in
   the face of climate change
ID agricultural robots; food industry; food processing; food safety; food
   security; food supply; learning systems; sustainable agriculture;
   agriculture industries; ai techniques; applications of ai; crop yield; food
   industries; food safety; global problems; informed decision; machine
   learning; smart agricultures; smart agriculture

---

UT 1169
AR Cui Y, 2026, ENV CHEM ECOTOXICOL, V8, P1043, DOI
   10.1016/j.enceco.2025.12.029
TI PFAS bioaccumulation in food crops: Structure-informed machine learning and
   mechanistic evidence for priority control
AU Cui Y; Xiao W; Fang Y/1; Li B; Zheng M; Li Y
TC 0
SO ENV CHEM ECOTOXICOL
PY 2026
AB per and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( pfass ) , as globally emerging
   persistent organic pollutants , pose severe threats to agroecosystems due to
   their ubiquity and bioaccumulation potential . in this study , 108
   environmentally detected pfass were systematically evaluated using molecular
   docking to characterize their accumulation in wheat , tomato , and
   strawberry root stem tissues . a hierarchical evaluation framework was
   established to generate prioritized control lists , identifying 15 , 16 ,
   and 8 high risk pfass in wheat , tomato , and strawberry , respectively ,
   with 16 compounds consistently detected across crops . source apportionment
   revealed food packaging , wastewater , landfill leachate , personal care
   products , and paints as key entry pathways into agricultural environments .
   building on this foundation , a machine learning prediction model was
   constructed to extend the evaluation to 6203 pfass . the results highlighted
   that emerging structural features , including cyclic , heterocyclic ,
   quaternary ammonium , and amphoteric groups , substantially enhance crop
   bioaccumulation effects . furthermore , for the first time , crop specific
   adverse outcome pathway ( aop ) frameworks were established , providing
   mechanistic insights into pfas bioaccumulation in crops . protein ligand
   docking further demonstrated that highly bioaccumulative pfass engage in
   stronger hydrogen bonding , hydrophobic , and electrostatic interactions
   with key receptors , thereby validating structure activity relationships
   underlying their enhanced accumulation . this study provides robust
   mechanistic evidence and predictive insight into the environmental fate and
   bioaccumulation behavior of pfass in agroecosystems , offering a scientific
   basis for exposure assessment and ecological risk management
DE aop; bioaccumulation effect; emerging pfas control; machine learning; pfas;
   prioritized control lists
ID agricultural machinery; biochemistry; chemical contamination; crops;
   environmental management; fruits; hydrogen bonds; learning systems; machine
   learning; plants ( botany ); risk assessment; risk management; adverse
   outcome pathway; adverse outcomes; bioaccumulation effect; emerging
   polyfluoroalkyl substance control; machine learning; mechanistics;
   polyfluoroalkyl substances; prioritized control list; prioritized controls;
   bioaccumulation; hydrogen; ligand; machine learning; prioritization;
   protein; bioaccumulation

---

UT 1170
AR Yenardi S, 2025, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V1430 LNEE, P535, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-7249-3_43
TI Sales Prediction for Solving Food Wastage with Machine Learning Algorithms
   on French Bakery Shop
AU Yenardi S; Crisastum ASJ; Ponnusamy RRAP; Wilfred Blessing NR
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2025
AB food waste is a global issue that has a significant impact on the
   environment and economy of nations . it is aware that the causes of food
   waste are complex and varied , arising from several points in the food chain
   , including production , distribution , retail , and consumption ,
   particularly in the bakery sector . furthermore , because bread has a
   limited shelf life and goes bad after only three days , a lot of it is
   wasted . model prediction is believed to be one of the ways to tackle this
   issue as by predicting the sales in the future , managers will be able to
   manage the daily production to reduce wastage . in this paper , sales data
   from a french bakery store is gathered , and sarima , xgboost , and random
   forest is implemented to generate an accurate model to predict the sales in
   the upcoming year . this is motivated by the need to reduce the amount of
   bread wasted every day , month , or year . the result shows that xgboost
   outperforms both sarima and random forest with the lowest rmse value at
   123.61. the research results can help retailers and bakeries reduce the
   amount of bread wastage globally through better inventory management as well
   as bread production to improve both profitability as well as the environment
DE food wastage; french bakery; machine learning; predictive modeling; random
   forest; sales prediction; sarima; time series; xgboost
ID bakeries; environmental management; food products; forecasting; inventory
   control; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine learning; prediction
   models; sales; food wastages; food waste; french bakery; machine learning;
   predictive models; random forests; sale predictions; sarima; times series;
   xgboost; time series

---

UT 1171
AR Budhathoki M, 2026, AQUAC, V610, DOI 10.1016/j.aquaculture.2025.742904
TI Market dynamics and E-commerce satisfaction in China's aquatic food sector:
   Machine learning and data insights
AU Budhathoki M; Li L/1; Xu H; Zhang W/4; Ma X/1; Pandey S; Thomsen M
TC 6
SO AQUAC
PY 2026
AB china s growing demand for aquatic foods , driven by the rapid expansion of
   e commerce , is reshaping global seafood markets and influencing the broader
   sustainable food system . this transformation is altering domestic market
   dynamics and creating new challenges and opportunities in international
   trade , sustainable supply chains , and market competitiveness . this study
   investigates production trends , import reliance , and consumer e commerce
   satisfaction in the aquatic food market , with a focus on implications for
   sustainable supply chain policy and management . by employing supervised
   machine learning technique , support vector machines ( svm ) , along with
   latent dirichlet allocation ( lda ) , mann whitney you test , and logistic
   regression , the study uncovers critical insights into consumer preferences
   , including the factors driving e commerce satisfaction , and supply chain
   dynamics , such as the impact of product freshness and delivery efficiency .
   the study highlights the growing reliance on imports in china s aquatic food
   market , despite expanding domestic production . fresh and frozen products ,
   particularly crustaceans and finfish , consistently receive higher consumer
   satisfaction on e commerce platforms , primarily due to their quality and
   freshness . domestic producers face increasing pressure to meet these high
   standards , particularly in freshness , quality control , and delivery
   efficiency . the findings point to challenges in meeting consumer
   expectations and suggest opportunities for policy interventions to enhance
   the competitiveness of domestic aquatic food products . the research
   highlights the transformative role of e commerce platforms in shaping china
   s aquatic food market , providing actionable insights for policymakers ,
   producers , and e commerce stakeholders to navigate emerging trends ,
   improve supply chain efficiency , and meet evolving consumer demands
DE consumer preferences; e-commerce satisfaction; import reliance; seafood
   markets; supply chain dynamics; sustainable consumption
ID china; competitiveness; electronic commerce; food market; life satisfaction;
   machine learning; market system; seafood; supply chain management;
   transformation

---

UT 1172
AR Storck JL, 2025, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13357, DOI 10.1117/12.3042892
TI Purity analysis of food raw materials using deep learning with anomaly
   detection algorithms
AU Storck JL; Fiedler J; Müller B; Beeck A; Kaschuba R
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2025
AB against the background of the planned automation of the batch wise visual
   sampling quality inspection of the food company kundig group , the
   application of the state of the art anomaly detection models patchcore and
   efficientad is investigated . in principle , such deep learning methods are
   only trained on normal image data ( unsupervised ) and can detect as well as
   localize deviations from the representation of normal data . for the
   training of corresponding models , a dried porcini mushroom slices dataset (
   dpmsd ) is created and published . the porcini mushrooms are spread out
   chaotically on a conveyor belt and recorded with an rgb ( red green blue )
   line scan camera . in order to assess the model performance , additional
   abnormal data with physical contaminants from production are added to the
   mushrooms and recorded , namely aluminum , plastic and glass fragments as
   well as dried onions and small nuts . it is shown that this industrial dpmsd
   has a higher complexity and difficulty compared to the typical benchmark
   datasets , resulting in significantly lower model performance . for example
   , a pixel wise area under the receiver operating characteristic ( auroc ) of
   81.1 % and an imagewise auroc of 63.1 % is achieved for patchcore as well as
   69.5 % and 78.7 % respectively for efficientad . especially the localization
   of the anomalies is improved by common techniques such as tiling or data
   augmentation . the nut anomaly can not be detected by any model trained in
   this work because the similarity to the normal procini mushrooms is probably
   too high . without this contaminant , the performance of an optimized
   efficientad model remains in a similar range , which is still considerably
   lower compared to the expectation based on the typical benchmark datasets .
   this illustrates the existing gap between academic research and industrial
   application and highlights the need for further application oriented
   research
DE anomaly detection; anomaly localization; computer vision; dataset; deep
   learning; food processing; procini mushrooms; quality control
ID benchmarking; gluing; network security; strain hardening; anomaly detection;
   anomaly localizations; benchmark datasets; dataset; deep learning; learning
   with anomalies; modeling performance; procini mushroom; purity analysis;
   receiver operating characteristics; belt conveyors

---

UT 1173
AR Rahimnezhad A, 2026, SCI REP, V16, DOI 10.1038/s41598-026-36162-5
TI Machine learning prediction of food addiction in university students using
   demographic, anthropometric and personality traits
AU Rahimnezhad A; Mortazavi ST; Behdarvand Y; Bayat MP; Mortazavi SY; Jafarirad
   S
TC 0
SO SCI REP
PY 2026
AB people s eating habits are influenced by psychological , social , cultural ,
   and behavioral factors . research shows that certain personality types
   expose people to risky eating behaviors . given the complexity of nutrition
   related factors and the limitations of traditional statistical methods , the
   use of new approaches such as artificial intelligence and machine learning
   can play an effective role in analyzing multidimensional data and
   identifying complex patterns . this cross sectional pilot study aimed to
   predict food addiction among university students by integrating demographic
   , anthropometric and personality data with machine learning methods . the
   data consisted of 210 samples , which were first preprocessed to ensure data
   quality and integrity . tomek links and smote techniques were used to remove
   class imbalance . feature selection was performed using the twelve different
   algorithms to identify the most important features related to food addiction
   prediction . then , ten different machine learning models were implemented ,
   including logistic regression ( lr ) , k nearest neighbors ( knn ) ,
   gaussian naive bayes ( gnb ) , support vector classifier ( svc ) with
   probability estimation , decision tree ( dt ) , random forest ( rf ) ,
   adaboost , gradient boosting classifier ( gbc ) , catboost and lightgbm .
   the models were trained on the training dataset and their performance was
   evaluated using the accuracy , precision , recall , f1-score and auc metrics
   on the test dataset . in addition , the shap ( shapley additive explanations
   ) method was used to analyze the importance of features and interpret the
   advanced models to determine the impact of each psychological and behavioral
   feature on the prediction of food addiction . the results showed that more
   advanced models , especially ensemble methods such as random forest and
   catboost , have high power in identifying complex patterns and accurately
   predicting food addiction behaviors . shap analysis also showed that
   psychological characteristics such as feelings of worthlessness ,
   impulsivity , anger , psychological distress , rigid cognitive styles ,
   weight and height , body mass index ( bmi ) were related the most important
   factors affecting prediction . although limitations such as small sample
   size , focusing on a specific student population , and the use of self
   report instruments reduce the generalizability of the results , the
   innovation of this study in combining psychological and artificial
   intelligence approaches for early identification of high risk individuals is
   remarkable . overall , the integration of personality profiles with advanced
   computational models can form the basis for the development of artificial
   intelligence based screening tools and targeted interventions to improve
   nutritional behaviors in young populations
DE eating behaviors; food addiction; machine learning; shap analyze
ID adult; anthropometry; cross-sectional studies; feeding behavior; female;
   food addiction; humans; machine learning; male; personality; pilot projects;
   students; universities; young adult; adult; anthropometry; cross-sectional
   study; diagnosis; epidemiology; feeding behavior; female; food addiction;
   human; machine learning; male; personality; pilot study; psychology;
   student; university; young adult

---

UT 1174
AR Chang J, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V156, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104845
TI Artificial intelligence in food bioactive peptides screening: Recent
   advances and future prospects
AU Chang J; Wang H/2; Su W; He X/2; Tan M
TC 52
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : food derived bioactive peptides ( fbps ) play a vital role in
   nutrition and health . traditional experimental approaches for identifying
   fbps are often labor intensive , time consuming , and costly . in contrast ,
   computational approaches , for example , virtual screening and molecular
   dynamics simulations , have their own limitations . artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) technology enables high throughput screening and analysis of activity
   mechanisms for fbps . ongoing ai research will enhance the in depth
   development and application of fbps . scope and approach : this review
   outlines the general process of ai screening for fbps , including data
   foundation , molecular feature representation , machine learning and deep
   learning model construction and training , as well as evaluation and
   validation . it also summarizes recent research advances in ai screening of
   fbps with different bioactivities , discusses current key issues and
   challenges , and highlights future research directions and trends of fbps .
   key findings and conclusions : significant advancements have been made in
   utilizing ai screening methods to identify functional fbps with anti
   inflammatory , antibacterial , antioxidant , flavor enhancing , and
   hypotensive properties , while the research on anti obesity and anti fatigue
   peptides is still at a nascent stage . deep learning has demonstrated clear
   predictive advantages over traditional machine learning techniques . however
   , challenges remain when screening for peptides with different biological
   activities . moving forward , data augmentation strategies should be
   developed within food specific large models , and a universal deep learning
   framework based on multi scale chemical space features should be created to
   predict peptide target dynamic interactions . a high throughput screening
   framework should be established , alongside enhanced research on ai methods
   for multifunctional properties like anti obesity and anti fatigue effects
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food-derived bioactive peptides;
   food-specific large models; high throughput screening; machine learning
ID anti-fatigue; bioactive peptides; deep learning; food-derived bioactive
   peptide; food-specific large model; future prospects; high throughput
   screening; large models; machine learning; peptide screening; contrastive
   learning

---

UT 1175
AR Arun S, 2025, SCI TECHNOL ENERGY TRANSIT, V80, DOI 10.2516/stet/2025022
TI Optimizing micro cold storage for detecting stale food and fruits
AU Arun S; Amit Wagle S; Nambiar P; Panalkar P; Ekka P; Kumar V/1; Dhiman H;
   Roy A
TC 1
SO SCI TECHNOL ENERGY TRANSIT
PY 2025
AB cold storage are a critical element of the food supply and sustainability
   supply chain for preservation and maintaining the quality as well as the
   nutritional value of stored items . this work investigates into the adoption
   of artificial intelligence ( ai ) techniques in cold storage with the aim of
   reducing food wastage thereby contributing to sdg 2 . this work presents an
   algorithm based on the inception v3 ai model that aids in assessing the
   condition or quality of fruits and vegetables that are stored in controlled
   environmental conditions . from the proposed model , one can identify with
   an accuracy of 99 % , the correct condition of the fruit / vegetable .
   additionally , other structures have demonstrated high accuracy , such as
   the compact convolutional neural network ( cnn ) achieving 98.54 % precision
   and the sequential model with 98 % precision , both of which significantly
   contribute to the robustness of the results . these high accuracy rates
   praise the effectiveness of ai in categorizing farm products . depending on
   the freshness level , the commodities are classified as fresh and rotten .
   classification of such market offers the farmers very crucial information
   that allows them to make the right decisions , on the right time to sell
   their produce hence achieve stability of market price . this research not
   only helps to apply ai into the cold storage systems but also assist in
   helping the farmers through data driven decision making . the feature of
   recognizing the freshness of stored products proves the opportunities in
   applying the ai in managing inventory in cold storage and creating efficient
   and sustainable system . finally , this work represents a great progress
   toward the development of smart systems improving the quality of products
   and a viable economics of storing them in the common granaries of farming
   industries . the author ( s ) , published by edp sciences , 2025 .
DE ai for food preservation; classification; freshness; fruit; inceptionv3
ID classification ( of information ); cold storage; commerce; decision making;
   digital storage; food preservation; food storage; food supply; artificial
   intelligence for food preservation; artificial intelligence techniques;
   condition; critical elements; food wastages; freshness; high-accuracy;
   inceptionv3; intelligence models; nutritional value; artificial
   intelligence; detection method; food quality; food storage; fruit;
   optimization; preservation; qualitative analysis; sustainability; fruits

---

UT 1176
AR Soroushianfar M, 2025, CURR NUTR REP, V14, DOI 10.1007/s13668-025-00657-w
TI Application of Bioinformatics and Machine Learning Tools in Food Safety
AU Soroushianfar M; Asgari G; Afzali F; Falahat A; Soroush M; Baghahi M;
   Haratizadeh MJ; Khalili-Tanha G; Nazari E
TC 5
SO CURR NUTR REP
PY 2025
AB purpose of review : food safety is a fundamental challenge in public health
   and sustainable development , facing threats from microbial , chemical , and
   physical contamination . innovative technologies improve our capacity to
   detect contamination early and prevent disease outbreaks , while also
   optimizing food production and distribution processes . recent findings :
   this article discusses the role of new bioinformatics and machine learning
   technologies in promoting food safety and contamination control , along with
   various related articles in this field . by analyzing genetic and proteomic
   data , bioinformatics helps to quickly and accurately identify pathogens and
   sources of contamination . machine learning , as a powerful tool for massive
   data processing , also can discover hidden patterns in the food production
   and distribution chain , which helps to improve risk prediction and control
   processes . summary : by reviewing previous research and providing new
   solutions , this article emphasizes the role of these technologies in
   identifying , preventing , and improving decisions related to food safety .
   this study comprehensively shows how the integration of bioinformatics and
   machine learning can help improve food quality and safety and prevent
   foodborne disease outbreaks
DE artificial intelligence; bioinformatics; food safety; foodborne disease;
   machine learning
ID computational biology; disease outbreaks; food contamination; food
   microbiology; food safety; foodborne diseases; humans; machine learning;
   proteomics; artificial intelligence; bioinformatics; commercial phenomena;
   data processing; educational tool; food; food industry; food poisoning; food
   quality; food safety; machine learning; nonhuman; prediction; review;
   sustainable development; epidemic; food contamination; food control; food
   poisoning; human; prevention and control; procedures; proteomics

---

UT 1177
AR Gite SS, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V159, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104977
TI Exploration of simulated human olfactory system and its integration with
   machine learning algorithms for food quality assessment: A review
AU Gite SS; Karmakar M; Mokashi S; Dalbhagat CG; Kambhampati V; Raigar RK;
   Shukla RM
TC 6
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : a simulated human olfactory system called an electronic nose (
   e nose ) detects and recognizes volatile organic compounds ( vocs ) . it
   consists of a gas sensor array ( which responds to different vocs and
   generates an electronic signal ) connected to a data acquisition system ,
   which is further processed using machine learning algorithms to classify or
   discriminate the odor or aroma of food material . scope and approach : due
   to rapid , cheap , and non destructive methods for both quality and sensory
   assessment of different food categories , nowadays , it is gaining too much
   attention . instead of huge improvements , there are still some constraints
   in this field that need to be considered for the advancement of an e nose .
   therefore , this article explores the construction and integration of e nose
   with machine learning algorithms for sensory and quality assessment of
   distinct food materials . key findings and conclusion : for the ground truth
   validation , reference data generated by using different analytical tools (
   gc ms , gc ims , nirs , and qnda ) integrated with e nose by using a machine
   learning algorithm ( classifiers , regressors , and dimension reduction
   algorithms ) are improving the performance of an e nose . at the same time ,
   the use of ensemble learning algorithms in e nose enables decision making
   with higher accuracy . however , the future of e nose devices lies in
   further evolution and advancement with ongoing research and its adaption in
   industrial analytical deployment
DE algorithm; e-nose; food assessment; machine learning; sensory; simulated
   olfactory system
ID food assessment; food materials; food quality; machine learning algorithms;
   machine learning; olfactory systems; quality assessment; sensory; simulated
   olfactory system; volatile organics; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 1178
AR Altaf QS, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF, P23, DOI
   10.1201/9781032633602-2
TI Application of Machine Learning in the Food Industry
AU Altaf QS; Ksouri R
TC 5
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD IND ENHANCING QUAL SAF
PY 2025
AB this chapter discusses the profound impact of machine learning ( ml ) on the
   food sector , focusing on its applicability throughout all phases of food
   production and supply chain management ( scm ) . ml algorithms enhance food
   quality control and safety by enabling sensitive evaluation methods such as
   detection of microbial contamination , assessment of sensory quality , and
   identification of hazardous compounds . furthermore , they assist in
   predicting and reducing issues related to food spoilage and waste ,
   optimizing storage conditions , and improving shelf life . ml also plays a
   key role in supply chain optimization , predicting food cost fluctuations ,
   improving traceability , and ensuring transparency . advanced ml techniques
   are applied to detect and prevent food fraud , ensure compliance with
   regulatory standards , and enhance consumer trust . the personalized
   nutrition and diet planning supported by ml is being introduced by
   showcasing individualized diet recommendations based on personal health data
   . sustainability is another critical area in which ml significantly
   contributes , optimizing resource utilization and minimizing environmental
   impact . this chapter concludes with insights into the future of ml in the
   food industry : the integration of ml with emerging technologies such as the
   internet of things ( iot ) and blockchain for real time data analytics and
   traceability , the development of more complex predictive models , and the
   potential for fully automated food production systems

---

UT 1179
AR Meeske M, 2026, DISCOV SUSTAIN, V7, DOI 10.1007/s43621-025-02209-2
TI The role of language technology and artificial intelligence in food security
   policymaking
AU Meeske M; Cruijssen F; van der Lee C; Krahmer E
TC 0
SO DISCOV SUSTAIN
PY 2026
AB natural language processing ( nlp ) offers significant opportunities to
   support the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including zero hunger .
   while many nlp applications have been documented for sdgs such as healthcare
   and education , its application to food security remains largely unexplored
   . this paper addresses this knowledge gap through a comprehensive scoping
   review focused on nlp for food security policymaking . six key application
   areas were identified : ( 1 ) early warning systems for food insecurity , (
   2 ) understanding public discourse on food related issues , ( 3 ) knowledge
   generation and management from food policy and program documents , ( 4 )
   understanding dietary habits , ( 5 ) food item classification , and ( 6 )
   addressing data gaps in food security statistics and crisis response .
   however , limited deployment hinders real world impact . establishing
   authentic partnerships from the outset will be essential for the successful
   and sustained implementation of nlp projects that advance progress toward
   ending hunger and achieving food security and improved nutrition for all
DE artificial intelligence; food security; natural language processing;
   policymaking; sustainable development
ID artificial intelligence; food policy; food security; policy making;
   sustainable development

---

UT 1180
AR Wang C/4, 2026, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V172, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2026.105698
TI Embodied artificial intelligence in the food supply chain: Innovations,
   challenges, and future perspectives
AU Wang C/4; Lv C; Gao Y/1; He Y/2; Zhang X; Zhang Z/5; Min W; Zhang D/4; Fan
   D; Wang W/2; Ma P; Wang F
TC 0
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB background : embodied artificial intelligence ( eai ) couples perception ,
   decision making , and physical actuation in real environments . its
   relevance to the food sector is increasing as global systems face pressures
   from climate change , labor shortages , and rising demands for food safety ,
   traceability , and sustainability . scope and approach : this review
   synthesizes recent advances in eai across the food supply chain , from on
   farm operations to primary processing , quality inspection , packaging , and
   cold chain logistics . evidence is organized around the perception ,
   learning , and action stack and interpreted together with food specific
   deployment constraints such as hygiene compatibility , reliability , latency
   , and cost . key findings and conclusion : current evidence suggests that
   broader deployment of eai will require open , domain specific benchmarks ,
   large scale pilot validation , interpretable and auditable control
   architectures , and life cycle oriented sustainability assessment .
   establishing transparent and secure data governance frameworks among farmers
   , processors , and logistics providers is critical to ensuring
   interoperability , accountability , and public trust . the integration of
   sustainability metrics , ethical oversight , and human ai collaboration will
   guide the development of intelligent , regulation ready food systems that
   advance productivity while maintaining environmental and social
   responsibility
DE embodied artificial intelligence ( eai ); multi-modal sensing; sim-to-real
   transfer; soft robotic manipulation; sustainable food supply chains
ID agriculture; artificial intelligence; environmental regulations; food
   safety; food security; food supply; government data processing; life cycle;
   social aspects; supply chains; sustainable development; embodied artificial
   intelligence; food supply chain; multi-modal sensing; robotic manipulation;
   sim-to-real transfer; soft robotic manipulation; soft robotics; supply chain
   innovations; sustainable food supply chain; decision making

---

UT 1181
AR Fragkos N, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15101628
TI Food Origin Authenticity Using Deep Learning and Citizen Science: Bananas
   Case Study
AU Fragkos N; Bouzembrak Y; Erasmus SW/1; Soares FM
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB this study introduces an artificial intelligence ( ai ) -based proof of
   concept approach to tackle food fraud by using convolutional neural networks
   ( cnns ) and citizen science generated imagery to predict the country of
   origin of cavendish banana cultivars ( musa spp . ) . a total of 6000 images
   were collected from inaturalist , and a cnn classifier was trained to
   distinguish bananas sourced from six countries . transfer learning was
   leveraged , and among nine pre trained models tested , mobilenetv1
   demonstrated the best trade off between performance and computational
   efficiency . following model fine tuning , data augmentation was implemented
   to mitigate class imbalance and ensure a dense feature space . the model
   achieved an average accuracy of 0.86 with monte carlo cross validation and
   0.77 with a 5-fold cross validation . the final selected model attained a
   validation accuracy of 0.79. accordingly , this study should be viewed as a
   foundational proof of concept demonstrating the potential of ai for origin
   detection at the cultivation stage . while the current evaluation framework
   reflects an early stage experimental setting , the findings introduce a
   promising new dimension for proactive food fraud detection . moving forward
   , this pipeline provides a foundation that can be expanded and independently
   validated
DE artificial intelligence; convolutional neural network; crowdsourced data;
   food fraud; rgb image
ID article; artificial intelligence; banana; case study; citizen science;
   classifier; convolutional neural network; cross validation; cultivar; deep
   learning; diagnosis; fraud; human; imagery; monte carlo cross validation;
   musa aaa group; proof of concept; transfer of learning

---

UT 1182
AR Sun Y, 2026, J FOOD ENG, V402, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2025.112676
TI Engineering odor control in algal foods: Machine learning for quality
   enhancement
AU Sun Y; Zhang Q/1; Lin H; Lu J/1; Zhang H/6; Su C; Huang S; Pang J; Li X/3
TC 4
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2026
AB algal odors pose significant challenges to the sensory quality of food
   products , often affecting consumer acceptance and product marketability .
   despite advancements in food engineering , research focused on effective
   odor control in algal based functional foods remains limited . this study
   utilizes machine learning to analyze the molecular structures of algal
   derived odor compounds , aiming to enhance sensory quality through targeted
   processing methods . molecular descriptors were extracted using rdkit from
   compounds in the olfactionbase and pubchem databases , followed by
   visualization with t distributed stochastic neighbor embedding ( t sne ) ,
   revealing distinct clustering patterns for specific odor profiles . six
   machine learning algorithms , including gaussian naive bayes , random forest
   , support vector machine , k nearest neighbors , stochastic gradient descent
   , and gradient boosting decision trees , were evaluated for classification
   accuracy . initially , a binary classification model was constructed to
   differentiate between ' ammonia like ' and ' rancid ' odors . to further
   enhance model generalizability , an additional odor class ( ' other ' ) was
   incorporated to reflect non typical or mixed odor profiles , resulting in a
   multiclass classification task . feature selection and dimensionality
   reduction were conducted using rfecv and pca , respectively , followed by
   model training and validation . in the binary classification task , the k
   nearest neighbors model demonstrated superior performance , achieving
   accuracies of 94.25 % and 93.11 % in 3-fold and 5-fold cross validation ,
   respectively . in multi classification tasks , stochastic gradient descent
   achieves the best results . this computational approach offers a novel
   framework for odor mitigation , aiding the development of engineered
   solutions that improve the sensory characteristics of algal derived foods .
   future research should focus on integrating machine learning models with
   physical , chemical , and biological odor control methods for more
   comprehensive strategies in food engineering
DE algal odor control; food engineering; molecular structure analysis; neural
   networks; sensory quality enhancement
ID cyclization; nearest neighbor search; odor removal; stochastic control
   systems; support vector machines; algal odor control; classification tasks;
   food engineering; machine learning; molecular structure analyze; neural
   networks; quality enhancement; sensory qualities; sensory quality
   enhancement; structure analysis; odor control

---

UT 1183
AR Patel A/1, 2025, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V430 SIST, P415, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-1206-2_32
TI Integrated Approaches to Impurity Detection and Classification in Solid
   Foods Using Machine Learning and Spectrometry
AU Patel A/1; Patel H; Shah K/1; Solanki M; Jayswal H; Benarjee A; Damodar D;
   Chaudhari JP; Chaudhari P
TC 0
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB to ensure food safety and quality , the detection of impurities in solid
   foods is of paramount importance . the research investigates the application
   of machine learning techniques in conjunction with spectrometry for the
   identification and classification of impurities in solid food samples . the
   spectral data were specially collected for the experiment through a thorough
   examination of various solid food samples using near infrared ( nir )
   spectrometry . different types of machine learning models such as random
   forest classifications , support vector , ensemble learning algorithms and
   neural networks were leveraged for classification . the study leverages the
   concept of nir spectrometry as an utilization of machine learning algorithms
   to maintain food safety and quality assurance . the study tries to enable
   real time contamination detection and classification during food processing
   . the implementation of experiment has achieved a validation accuracy of
   about 97.85 % on an in house dataset
DE machine learning; near infrared ( nir ) spectrometry; solid food impurity
ID chemical contamination; classification ( of information ); food processing;
   food safety; impurities; intelligent systems; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; machine learning; near infrared spectroscopy; quality assurance;
   spectrometry; food quality; food samples; food safety; impurities in;
   impurity detections; integrated approach; machine learning; near infrared
   spectrometry; solid food; solid food impurity; infrared devices

---

UT 1184
AR Zhang L/7, 2025, ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V16, P25, DOI 10.1146/annurev-
   food-111523-122039
TI Machine Learning in Automated Food Processing: A Mini Review
AU Zhang L/7; Boom RM; Ma Y
TC 9
SO ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB industrial food processing is rapidly transforming into automation and
   digitalization . automated food processing systems adapt to variations in
   raw materials and product quality requirements . implementing automated
   processing systems can potentially improve the sustainability of our food
   systems by improving productivity while reducing environmental impacts .
   nevertheless , the adoption of automated food processing systems is still
   relatively low . in this review , we discuss the concept of automated food
   processing and summarize the recent advances in applications of machine
   learning technologies to enable automated food processing . machine learning
   can find its applications in formulation development , process control , and
   product quality assessment . we share our vision on the potential of
   automated food processing systems to adapt to complex raw materials , mass
   customization , personalized nutrition , and human machine interaction .
   finally , we pinpoint relevant research questions and stress that future
   research on automated food processing requires multidisciplinary approaches
DE automation; data-driven approach; food personalization; industry 40; machine
   learning; smart food manufacturing
ID automation; food handling; humans; machine learning; acidification; boning;
   brining; canning; computer control; damage detection; drying; evaporation;
   food products plants; food storage; food supply; model predictive control;
   processed foods; statistical process control; data-driven approach; food
   manufacturing; food personalization; food processing systems; machine
   learning; materials and products; personalizations; products quality;
   quality requirements; raw materials quality; automation; food handling;
   human; machine learning; procedures; breadmaking

---

UT 1185
AR George D, 2026, FOOD RES INT, V235, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2026.118922
TI Artificial intelligence in revolutionizing food encapsulation: Applications
   ranging from discovery to deployment
AU George D; Moses JA; Sinija VR
TC 0
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2026
AB encapsulation technology involves strategic methods that mask undesirables ,
   preserve bioactive compounds , and control their delivery characteristics .
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) has the potential to transform the field ,
   accelerating the development of smart materials and methods . this narrative
   review critically analyzed approximately 200 relevant articles , mostly
   published between 2020 and 2025 . the key steps involved in the formulation
   of encapsulated foods from lab to market , along with the extent of ai
   integration at each step , are comprehensively discussed , highlighting
   opportunities for future enhancements . the successful commercialization of
   an encapsulated food product has been categorized under four stages :
   discovery , development , evaluation , and deployment . the fundamentals of
   ai and its associated tools are explained to establish a foundation for a
   clear understanding of ai models and their applications . although ai has
   been progressively integrated into various sectors of food processing , its
   application to food encapsulation remains in its nascent stages . however ,
   current research trend shows promising capabilities . material selection ,
   process optimization , and quality control are the major domains of research
   involving ai integration in food encapsulation . with more data availability
   and interdisciplinary collaborations between food technologists , material
   scientists , and ai specialists , computational complexity can be addressed
   , enabling customized solutions
DE artificial intelligence; artificial neural networks; encapsulation; industry
   40; machine learning
ID artificial intelligence; food handling; food technology; data encapsulation;
   food processing; food products; industry 40; learning systems; neural
   networks; process control; current; associated tool; bioactive compounds;
   commercialisation; encapsulation technology; intelligence integration;
   intelligence models; its applications; machine learning; neural networks;
   artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; deployment;
   encapsulation; food processing; human; integration; process optimization;
   quality control; review; scientist; food handling; procedures; encapsulation

---

UT 1186
AR Monir M, 2025, IEEE INT CONF QUANTUM PHOTONICS ARTIF INTELL NETW QPAIN, DOI
   10.1109/QPAIN66474.2025.11171689
TI Predicting Food Prices Using Machine Learning and SHAP: A Focus on Four
   Essential Commodities in Bangladesh
AU Monir M
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF QUANTUM PHOTONICS ARTIF INTELL NETW QPAIN
PY 2025
AB bangladesh is a developing country that relies heavily on agriculture . the
   availability and affordability of basic food items are very important for
   its people . changes in food prices directly affect household expenses ,
   food security and the overall economy . this study aims to predict the
   prices of four essential food commodities using economic and environmental
   data from 2004 to 2024 . the commodities are rice , oil , wheat and lentils
   . six machine learning models were developed and evaluated on mae , rmse and
   r2 . gradient boosting had the highest r2 of 0.9697 for rice and 0.8755 for
   lentils , while random forest achieved 0.9337 for oil and catboost achieved
   0.9073 for wheat . shap analysis was performed to explain the model s
   predictions . it showed that variables such as gdp , inflation , soil
   moisture , wind speed , and temperature have a significant impact on price
   changes . the results also showed that bangladesh s economy and weather have
   a greater impact on locally produced foods than on imported goods
DE bangladesh; economic indicators; food price; shap; weather data
ID agricultural machinery; agriculture; costs; developing countries; food
   security; food supply; inflation; learning systems; machine learning;
   meteorology; wind; bangladesh; economic data; economic indicators;
   environmental data; food commodity; food prices; food security; machine
   learning; shap; weather data; forecasting

---

UT 1187
AR Yusufoğlu B, 2026, APPL FOOD RES, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.afres.2026.102100
TI Machine and deep learning for food integrity: A review of emerging
   analytical applications in safety, quality, and authenticity
AU Yusufoğlu B; Özdemir S; Zargarchi S; Gündoğan R; Capanoglu E; Tekinerdoğan
   B; Esatbeyoglu T
TC 0
SO APPL FOOD RES
PY 2026
AB the rapidly increasing global population , changing dietary habits and
   decreasing natural resources are affecting the sustainability and
   reliability of global food systems . in this context , making food systems
   resilient to change and sustainable in the long term requires the adoption
   of innovative approaches . the development , productization , and quality
   control processes of food systems , together with data generation ,
   necessitate moving beyond traditional analytical approaches to evaluate food
   safety and quality . in this regard , artificial intelligence ( ai ) ,
   machine learning ( ml ) , and deep learning ( dl ) methods are notable for
   their transformative potential in food chemistry . in recent years , the
   literature has focused on integrating spectroscopy , imaging systems ,
   electronic nose and tongue sensors , chemical composition and genomic data
   with ai models , offering solutions to critical problems such as pathogen
   detection , microbial risk assessment , quality classification , shelf life
   estimation , and food fraud detection . these approaches enable the
   extraction of meaningful patterns from complex food matrices by providing
   high accuracy , speed , and scalability . the conceptual framework
   underlying this review reveals that ai powered analytical food chemistry
   applications form an integrated structure through predictive systems ,
   automated inspection , quality assessment , and traceability components .
   furthermore , food composition and chemical compound databases , along with
   big data infrastructures , play a critical role in the training and
   generalizability of ai models . overall , ai / ml / dl based approaches
   offer a new paradigm in food safety management through real time monitoring
   , non destructive analysis , and dynamic decision support mechanisms .
   however , challenges such as data standardization , model transparency , and
   regulatory compliance stand out as key issues to be addressed in the future
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food quality; food safety; machine
   learning; systematic review
ID chemical compound; fatty acid ester; vegetable oil; volatile organic
   compound; water; acidity; adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system; analytic
   method; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; backpropagation
   neural network; baking time; biochemistry; chlamydia trachomatis; computer
   vision; convolutional neural network; cryptococcus neoformans; cyclic
   voltammetry; data base; decision making; decision support system; deep
   learning; denoising autoencoder; digital twin; dough; electrochemical
   analysis; energy consumption; environmental aspects and related phenomena;
   escherichia coli; experimental design; fermentation; fish; food
   authenticity; food composition; food control; food industry; food integrity;
   food processing; food quality; food safety; food safety monitoring;
   forecasting; fourier transform infrared spectroscopy; fruit; fuzzy system;
   gaussian naive bayes; graph neural network; humidity; internet of things;
   k-nearest neighbor; large language model; listeria monocytogenes; long
   short-term memory network; machine learning; meat; microbial contamination;
   milk; moisture; multilayer perceptron; natural language processing;
   nutritional parameters; one-dimensional convolutional neural network;
   physical phenomena; prediction; process optimization; product development;
   quality control; random forest; recurrent neural network; restricted
   boltzmann machine; review; rice; safety; salmonella enterica serovar
   typhimurium; shapley additive explanation; shelf life; short-term memory;
   supply chain; support vector machine; taste; temperature; texture
   degradation; time; toxoplasma gondii; wheat; whole genome sequencing

---

UT 1188
AR Shen C, 2025, TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM, V191, DOI 10.1016/j.trac.2025.118374
TI Advanced deep learning algorithms in food quality and authenticity
AU Shen C; Jin Q; Zhou G; Wang R/4; Wang Z/9; Liu D; Cai K; Xu B/1
TC 13
SO TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM
PY 2025
AB ensuring food quality and authenticity is critical to the food industry and
   consumers . with the advancements in industry 4.0 and artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) technologies , deep learning ( dl ) offers unparalleled
   opportunities to extract information and make decisions on complex or large
   datasets . however , conventional convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) and
   recurrent neural networks ( rnn ) have limitations . the development of
   advanced dl algorithms can accommodate the growing demand for complex tasks
   and herald revolutionary breakthroughs in the field of food quality and
   authenticity identification , which will continue to be driven by the
   ongoing development of advanced dl . this review provides a comprehensive
   overview of various advanced dl algorithms for food quality identification
   and food authenticity analysis , including advanced variants of cnn ,
   lightweight dl , sequential neural networks , graph neural networks ( gnn )
   , deep generative models ( dgm ) , and target detection algorithms . it also
   surveys recent applications of advanced dl algorithms for food quality
   inspection and authenticity analysis . this review discusses the challenges
   associated with advanced dl and the future trends , offering new insights
   into the development of advanced dl algorithms in food quality and
   authenticity . challenges such as overfitting , scalability ,
   interpretability , accessibility , data privacy , algorithmic bias , and the
   creation of large databases must be addressed in the application of advanced
   dl algorithms to drive their further iterations
DE advanced deep learning; algorithms; artificial intelligence; food
   authentication; food quality; food safety
ID complex networks; convolutional neural networks; data privacy; deep neural
   networks; food safety; graph algorithms; graph neural networks; large
   datasets; learning algorithms; quality control; advanced deep learning;
   artificial intelligence technologies; convolutional neural network; extract
   informations; food authentications; food authenticity; food industries; food
   quality; food safety; quality identifications; algorithm; algorithm bias;
   artificial intelligence; convolutional neural network; data base; data
   privacy; deep learning; detection algorithm; food industry; food quality;
   food safety; generative model; graph neural network; human; learning
   algorithm; nerve cell network; pharmaceutics; recurrent neural network;
   review; therapy; authentication

---

UT 1189
AR Zhao C/1, 2026, J SCI FOOD AGRIC, V106, P1438, DOI 10.1002/jsfa.70099
TI Possibilities and limitations of artificial intelligence in food-derived
   peptides
AU Zhao C/1; He Z/1; Ashaolu TJ
TC 11
SO J SCI FOOD AGRIC
PY 2026
AB the deep integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) with research on food
   derived peptides ( fdps ) signifies a paradigm shift toward intelligent
   precision design and functional optimization in developing fdp products .
   random forests , convolutional neural networks and other machine learning
   and deep learning technologies have markedly expedited bioactive peptide
   discovery , functional characterization and structureactivity relationship
   elucidation , while their comprehensive application confronts critical
   challenges encompassing dataset integrity , model architecture optimization
   , interpretability constraints and experimental verification requirements .
   consequently , a comprehensive understanding of the existing limitations and
   future opportunities of ai technology in the field of fdps is required .
   this review evaluates traditional methodologies and ai applications in fdp
   research , addressing current limitations and prospects . ai faces several
   challenges in predicting complex protein structures and fdps .
   dimensionality curse and local optima during protein structure prediction
   reduce accuracy . in fdp prediction , the selection of amino acid
   descriptors limits model stability . additionally , the scarcity of fdp
   datasets leads to accuracy reduction in ai model training and introduces
   class distribution bias . traditional cross entropy loss further exacerbates
   class distribution skew . these issues collectively constrain the
   application of ai in fdp prediction . ai enhances peptide screening
   efficiency through large scale data processing , reducing research costs .
   standardized multidimensional databases integrated with heterogeneous ai
   architectures improve predictive model accuracy and cross domain
   adaptability . computational visualization frameworks elucidate bioactive
   determinants and quantitative structureactivity relationships .
   metabolomicgut microbiota interdisciplinary strategies enable the precision
   design of bioactive peptides for personalized nutrition . ai optimized
   enzymatic hydrolysis processes and high throughput validation platforms
   advance mechanistic understanding and industrial production , despite the
   persisting challenges . 2025 society of chemical industry . 2025 society of
   chemical industry .
DE artificial intelligence; computational screening; data processing; enzymatic
   hydrolysis; food-derived peptides
ID artificial intelligence; humans; peptides; peptide; artificial intelligence;
   chemistry; human

---

UT 1190
AR Oka S, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V494, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.146171
TI Addressing Bias in machine learning feature importance for food quality
   assessment
AU Oka S; Yamazaki T; Takefuji Y
TC 2
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB li et al . ( 2025 ) highlighted random forest s ( rf ) high accuracy and
   shapley additive explanations ( shap ) -derived feature importance for
   almond deterioration . however , concerns persist regarding the reliability
   of these interpretations , as high predictive accuracy does not guarantee
   valid feature rankings due to inherent biases in tree based models , further
   amplified by shap s model dependency . to mitigate this , integrating robust
   statistical methods such as spearman s rho , kendall s tau , total
   correlation and effective transfer entropy is crucial for unbiased
   assessment . this combined approach ensures a more reliable evaluation of
   key indicators . future research should prioritize methodologies combining
   machine learning with rigorous statistical validation for more interpretable
   and trustworthy insights in complex biological systems . this integrated
   approach holds significant promise for improving the reliability of feature
   importance evaluations , leading to more trustworthy insights applicable to
   food science and chemistry fields
DE almond deterioration; feature importance; machine learning; random forest;
   shapley additive explanations; statistical validation
ID food quality; machine learning; additives; correlation methods;
   deterioration; food chemistry; forestry; learning systems; machine learning;
   random forests; reliability; almond deterioration; feature importance; food
   quality; high-accuracy; machine learning; quality assessment; random
   forests; shapley; shapley additive explanation; statistical validation;
   entropy; feature ranking; food quality; letter; machine learning;
   nutritional science; quality control; random forest; reliability; shapley
   additive explanation; statistical analysis; statistical bias; decision trees

---

UT 1191
AR Petrus DS, 2025, AIP CONF PROC, V3225, DOI 10.1063/5.0264957
TI The use of artificial neural networks for food enhancement in the food
   drying industry-A short review
AU Petrus DS; Ken CC; Hamid MA; Kamin Z; Bono A
TC 0
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2025
AB the food drying industry is essential for maintaining different food
   products flavor , nutritional content , and shelf life . traditionally used
   drying techniques sometimes rely on empirical data and heuristics , making
   optimizing drying procedures for various food products challenging . low
   temperature drying involves efficiently removing moisture from food products
   or other materials while minimizing the negative impact on their quality ,
   nutritional content , and sensory attributes . subsequently , a food
   processing component becomes more adaptable with machines , for example ,
   able to differentiate between more complex tasks , such as low saturated
   fats from high unsaturated fats , and fundamental problems distinguishing
   between different fruits . as a result , introducing machine deep learning
   will improve and help the food sector since it may open opportunities for
   computer vision to increase its potential . artificial neural networks (
   anns ) , which have the potential to improve process control , efficiency ,
   and product quality , have recently become a formidable tool in the food
   drying business . the primary purpose of this study is to review the use of
   anns in food drying . this study also covers moisture content prediction
   using artificial neural networks and multiple linear regression . ann can
   forecast and regulate crucial variables , including temperature , humidity ,
   and air velocity , in the context of drying food . it shows that anns
   demonstrated incredible potential in the modeling and optimization of
   complicated , nonlinear systems . this approach paves the way for developing
   more precise and comprehensive drying models , facilitating the simulation ,
   prediction , and optimization of food product drying performance without
   overly complex models

---

UT 1192
AR van Wonderen D, 2026, EUR J OPER RES, V328, P668, DOI
   10.1016/j.ejor.2025.06.015
TI Using diet optimization and machine learning for the design of healthy and
   acceptable menu plans
AU van Wonderen D; Gerdessen JC; Melse-Boonstra A; Onwezen MC
TC 0
SO EUR J OPER RES
PY 2026
AB the success of dietary plans relies on understanding and modeling consumer
   acceptance , yet quantifying this poses a challenge due to the complexity of
   individual preferences . recent research is focused on deriving
   acceptability constraints directly from data , as demonstrated by its
   application in designing food baskets with a limited number of commodities .
   in this study , we applied diet optimization with machine learning to the
   more complex task of menu planning . this involved considering hundreds of
   potential food alternatives and assessing their compatibility within a meal
   using a recipe completion algorithm . compared to the traditional diet
   modeling approach of food group filtering , the recipe completion model
   delivered diets with either higher nutritional adequacy or greater
   substitute acceptability , depending on the number of food groups used in
   the traditional method . while more research is needed to further improve
   the acceptability of substitutions , combining diet optimization with recipe
   completion presents a promising approach to enhance the nutritional adequacy
   of individual diets while maintaining the acceptability of food combinations
   within meals
DE consumer acceptance; diet modeling; food recommendations; or in health
   services
ID agri-food; food chemistry; food ingredients; machine learning; nutrition;
   consumer acceptance; diet modeling; food basket; food recommendation;
   individual preference; its applications; machine learning; optimizations; or
   in health services; recent researches; learning systems

---

UT 1193
AR Díaz-Soler A, 2025, DIS, V13, DOI 10.3390/diseases13080236
TI Anthropometric, Nutritional, and Lifestyle Factors Involved in Predicting
   Food Addiction: An Agnostic Machine Learning Approach
AU Díaz-Soler A; Reche-García C; Hernández-Morante JJ
TC 0
SO DIS
PY 2025
AB food addiction ( fa ) is an emerging psychiatric condition that presents
   behavioral and neurobiological similarities with other addictions , and its
   early identification is essential to prevent the development of more severe
   disorders . the aim of the present study was to determine the ability of
   anthropometric measures , eating habits , symptoms related to eating
   disorders ( ed ) , and lifestyle features to predict the symptoms of food
   addiction . methodology : a cross sectional study was conducted in a sample
   of 702 university students ( 77.3 % women . age : 22 6 years ) . the food
   frequency questionnaire ( ffq ) , the yale food addiction scale 2.0 ( yfas
   2.0 ) , the eating attitudes test ( eat 26 ) , anthropometric measurements ,
   and a set of self report questions on substance use , physical activity
   level , and other questions were administered . a total of 6.4 % of
   participants presented symptoms compatible with food addiction , and 8.1 %
   were at risk for ed . additionally , 26.5 % reported daily smoking , 70.6 %
   consumed alcohol , 2.9 % used illicit drugs , and 29.4 % took medication .
   35.3 % did not engage in physical activity . individuals with food addiction
   had higher bmi ( p = 0.010 ) , waist circumference ( p = 0.001 ) , and body
   fat ( p < 0.001 ) values , and a higher risk of eating disorders ( p = 0.010
   ) compared to those without this condition . in the multivariate logistic
   model , non dairy beverage consumption ( such as coffee or alcohol ) ,
   vitamin d deficiency , and waist circumference predicted food addiction
   symptoms ( r2nagelkerke = 0.349 ) . indeed , the machine learning approaches
   confirmed the influence of these variables . conclusions : the prediction
   models allowed an accurate prediction of fa in the university students .
   moreover , the individualized approach improved the identification of people
   with fa , involving complex dimensions of eating behavior , body composition
   , and potential nutritional deficits not previously studied
DE anthropometry; dietary intake; food addiction; lifestyle; machine learning;
   shap
ID addiction; adult; agnostic; anthropometry; article; attitude; body
   composition; body fat; body height; body mass; body weight; caloric intake;
   cross-sectional study; dietary intake; eating disorder; female; food
   addiction; food frequency questionnaire; human; lifestyle; machine learning;
   major clinical study; male; mental disease; nutritional assessment; obesity;
   physical activity; risk factor; self report; waist circumference; yale food
   addiction scale; young adult

---

UT 1194
AR Theba I, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1113, P201, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-7190-5_15
TI A Novel Approach for Detection of Food Adulteration Using Deep Learning with
   Image Processing
AU Theba I; Vegad S
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB the food processing sector has experienced significant impacts from the
   rapid advancement of technology , both in positive and negative ways . a
   global challenge we currently face is the adulteration of food productswith
   either safe or harmful substances , which can harm human health or lower
   food quality . recent cases have emerged where food adulteration is so
   subtle that traditional detection methods are ineffective . hence , there is
   an urgent need to explore intelligent methods for the precise identification
   of these adulterants in food items . in this digital age , it is crucial to
   develop advanced techniques that are quick , user friendly , cost effective
   , environmentally friendly and reliable . to begin with , this paper
   conducts a comprehensive review of various approaches employed for detecting
   adulteration in commonly consumed food items such as milk , edible oils ,
   honey and powdered spices . furthermore , this paper introduces an
   innovative approach , presenting a detailed procedure for identifying
   adulteration using a deep learning model in combination with image
   processing . this approach has the potential to offer fresh perspectives and
   guidance for conducting advanced experimental research in this field
DE computer vision; deep learning; food adulteration; image processing; machine
   learning
ID breadmaking; brining; canning; flavors; food storage; food supply; thermal
   processing ( foods ); deep learning; detection methods; food adulterations;
   food quality; global challenges; harmful substances; human health; images
   processing; intelligent method; machine learning; processed foods

---

UT 1195
AR Lysova N, 2025, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V253, P1923, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2025.01.254
TI Investigating Research Trends in Computer Vision for Food Quality Control: A
   Bibliometric Approach
AU Lysova N; Solari F; Montanari R
TC 5
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB the production throughputs of the food industry grow continuously due to the
   ever increasing customer demand . at the same time , food safety measures
   become increasingly strict . to this end , efficient quality control is
   essential to ensure quality and safety for consumers , and to guarantee
   efficient and valuable production for industrial stakeholders . computer
   vision is often applied to this end , usually integrated with other industry
   4.0 technologies and process automation . computer vision applications in
   quality control , indeed , can greatly enhance supply chain management in
   the food industry by maintaining consistent product quality and minimizing
   waste . in this paper , a keyword based analysis is carried out to assess
   the main research trends and topics in the field of computer vision for
   quality control in the food industry . the bibliometric analysis aims to
   assess the main applications of the technology in terms of processes and
   products and the main issues targeted by the analyzes . finally , the
   results of the bibliometric investigation allow to identify and highlight
   topics that present potential for future investigations in the field
DE bibliometric analysis; computer vision; food industry; industry 40; quality
   control
ID food chemistry; food ingredients; bibliometric; bibliometrics analysis;
   customer demands; food industries; food quality controls; food safety;
   process automation; quality and safeties; research trends; safety measures;
   food industry

---

UT 1196
AR Jesudas R, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2653 CCIS, P170, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-13026-6_12
TI Smart Recipe Using Gen-AI with BMI and Vegetables Detection
AU Jesudas R; Syed Ismail A; Mohammed Z
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB people today appear to have hectic schedules , which makes it challenging to
   follow healthy dietary guidelines . this study introduces a clever recipe
   generation model that creates recipes using the vegetables that are in stock
   at home using generative ai ( genai ) . furthermore , the formula also
   considers the user s body mass index . through image analysis , the system
   is supposed to be able to identify veggies , and bmi data would enable
   recipe moderation based on nutritional needs . these two capabilities work
   together to enable the ai to recommend meals while making sure that they do
   not conflict with the user s health objectives , such as losing weight ,
   staying the same weight , or managing dietary intolerances . thus , the
   ultimate result is a system that can facilitate user mealtimes , prevent
   food from being wasted , and , through meal recommendations , promote
   healthier eating habits . this exercise illustrates how artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) might impact everyday , basic chores like cooking in a
   way that saves us time while also enhancing our quality of life and
   promoting healthy habits
DE ai-powered recipes; bmi-based nutrition; food waste reduction; generative ai
   in cooking; healthy eating; personalized meal planning; smart recipe
   generation; vegetable image recognition
ID artificial intelligence; cooking; food chemistry; food ingredients; food
   waste; nutrition; artificial intelligence-powered recipe; bmi-based
   nutrition; food waste; food waste reduction; generative artificial
   intelligence in cooking; healthy eating; personalized meal planning; smart
   recipe generation; vegetable image recognition; waste reduction; vegetables

---

UT 1197
AR Wang Y/17, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15010133
TI A Review of High-Throughput Optical Sensors for Food Detection Based on
   Machine Learning
AU Wang Y/17; Yang Y/9; Liu H/4
TC 2
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB as the global food industry expands and consumers demand higher food safety
   and quality standards , high throughput detection technology utilizing
   digital intelligent optical sensors has emerged as a research hotspot in
   food testing due to its advantages of speed , precision , and non
   destructive operation . integrating cutting edge achievements in optics ,
   electronics , and computer science with machine learning algorithms , this
   technology efficiently processes massive datasets . this paper
   systematically summarizes the construction principles of intelligent optical
   sensors and their applications in food inspection . sensors convert light
   signals into electrical signals using nanomaterials such as quantum dots ,
   metal nanoparticles , and upconversion nanoparticles , and then employ
   machine learning algorithms including support vector machines , random
   forests , and convolutional neural networks for data analysis and model
   optimization . this enables efficient detection of target substances like
   pesticide residues , heavy metals , microorganisms , and food freshness .
   furthermore , the integration of multiple detection mechanisms including
   spectral analysis , fluorescence imaging , and hyperspectral imaging has
   significantly broadened the sensors application scenarios . looking ahead ,
   optical sensors will evolve toward multifunctional integration ,
   miniaturization , and intelligent operation . by leveraging cloud computing
   and iot technologies , they will deliver innovative solutions for
   comprehensive monitoring of food quality and safety across the entire supply
   chain
DE digital and intelligent optical sensors; food inspection; high throughput
   detection; machine learning; nanomaterials
ID heavy metal; metal nanoparticle; nanomaterial; quantum dot; upconversion
   nanoparticle; cloud computing; consumer; convolutional neural network; data
   analysis; diagnosis; electronics; fluorescence; fluorescence imaging; food;
   food control; food industry; food quality; food safety; human; hyperspectral
   imaging; machine learning; machine learning algorithm; miniaturization;
   optical sensor; optics; pesticide residue; random forest; review; sensor;
   supply chain; support vector machine; velocity

---

UT 1198
AR Ju E, 2026, J FOOD ENG, V409, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2025.112903
TI Comparison of deep learning models for 3D food printing monitoring system
AU Ju E; Seol J; Kim S/3; Kim S/1; Kim S-J; Son HI
TC 0
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2026
AB three dimensional food printing ( 3dfp ) is receiving increasing attention
   for its ability to provide personalized nutrition and utilize alternative
   food sources , such as insects . however , food materials are highly
   sensitive to environmental factors such as temperature and humidity . this
   often causes defects such as nozzle clogging and uneven layer formation .
   these problems result in significant waste of materials and time , so
   continuous monitoring during the printing is essential . however , manual
   monitoring involves limitations owing to subjectivity and fatigue ,
   monitoring must be done through an automated system . this paper proposes a
   deep learning based monitoring system that can operate in real time and
   demonstrate robust performance despite environmental variations . the
   proposed system uses a camera to monitor the printing process in real time
   and detect both the type and location of defects . since deep learning model
   has different characteristics , it is essential to compare models to select
   the most suitable model . in this study , three widely used segmentation
   models , you net , yolov8 , and segnet , were compared in terms of their
   performance and segmentation quality . a dataset was constructed using
   chocolate and three designs were printed three times in 27 cases . using the
   dataset , the model learns sagging and thinning defects . the experimental
   results showed that you net demonstrated the best performance in defect
   detection . yolov8 displayed moderate performance with low sensitivity ,
   highlighting its suitability for applications where speed is more important
   than accuracy . segnet achieved the highest auc value , suggesting that its
   performance can be enhanced via further optimization
DE 3d food printing; deep learning; defect detection; monitoring
ID 3d modeling; automation; defects; learning systems; printing presses;
   thermal processing ( foods ); 3d food printing; deep learning; defect
   detection; environmental factors; food materials; food sources; learning
   models; monitoring system; performance; real- time; deep learning

---

UT 1199
AR Meshram P/1, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V2,
   P1878
TI Smart Diet Recommendations: Integrating Machine Learning for Personalized
   Nutrition
AU Meshram P/1; Meshram P
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB in response to the growing global concern for health and nutrition , this
   paper presents nutriflow , an innovative diet recommendation system that
   leverages machine learning for personalized dietary guidance . the system
   addresses the critical need for individualized nutrition advice in today s
   fast paced world , where diet related health issues and weight related
   diseases are increasingly prevalent . nutriflow employs a comprehensive
   approach by integrating multiple components : bmi calculation for
   establishing personalized calorie targets , collaborative filtering and
   fuzzy logic algorithms for food recommendations , and an android based step
   counter for physical activity monitoring . the system collects user specific
   data including health metrics , dietary preferences , and restrictions ,
   then processes this information using predefined nutritional guidelines from
   established health organizations . the methodology incorporates both content
   based and collaborative filtering techniques , creating a hybrid
   recommendation engine that adapts to user feedback over time . experimental
   results demonstrate the system s effectiveness in providing personalized
   meal plans and nutritional information through an intuitive user interface .
   the study highlights nutriflow s success in presenting complex nutritional
   data in an easily digestible format , enabling users to make informed
   dietary decisions . this research contributes to the intersection of
   nutrition science and technology , offering a scalable solution for
   promoting healthier eating habits while maintaining flexibility for
   individual preferences and restrictions
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); health optimization; machine learning;
   nutritional analysis user; recommendation algorithms
ID information use; learning algorithms; machine learning; nutrition;
   recommender systems; user interfaces; artificial intelligence; fuzzy logic
   algorithms; health issues; health optimization; integrating machines;
   machine learning; multiple components; nutritional analyze user;
   optimizations; recommendation algorithms; learning systems

---

UT 1200
AR Hussein JB, 2026, FOOD ENG REV, V18, DOI 10.1007/s12393-026-09445-w
TI Exploring Trends and Future Developments in the Application of Artificial
   Intelligence in Food Processing and Preservation
AU Hussein JB; Workneh TS; Kassim A; Ntsowe K; Melesse SF/1; El-Mesery HS
TC 0
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is transforming food processing and
   preservation , offering significant opportunities to improve efficiency ,
   safety , quality , and sustainability . this systematic review examines the
   application of ai technologies in this field , with particular emphasis on
   machine learning , deep learning , computer vision , and robotics . using a
   prisma based approach , literature published between 2015 and 2025 was
   analyzed to identify major research trends , leading contributors , and
   emerging thematic areas . the review shows that ai has been widely applied
   in quality control and inspection , process optimization , shelf life
   prediction , intelligent packaging , predictive maintenance , and cold chain
   monitoring . ai driven systems have demonstrated strong capability in
   analyzing complex datasets , detecting abnormalities , modeling food
   processes , improving decision making , and enhancing food safety across the
   value chain . bibliometric and thematic evidence further indicates that the
   field is rapidly expanding and increasingly interdisciplinary . however ,
   most reported applications remain at laboratory or pilot scale , with
   limited industrial scale implementation . key barriers include data quality
   , model robustness , real time integration , and limited cross process
   deployment . ultimately , these challenges underscore the need for ongoing
   research and development in ai technologies to realize their promise within
   the food business further . future research directions encompass the
   amalgamation of ai with biotechnology , advancing more resilient and
   interpretable ai models , and formulating ethical standards for the
   appropriate application of ai in food processing and preservation .
   therefore , this article serves as a significant resource for scholars ,
   practitioners , and industry experts seeking to leverage the full
   capabilities of ai to elevate the food processing and preservation industry
DE food processing; preservation technology; quality control; smart systems;
   supply chain optimization
ID chains; decision making; deep learning; food preservation; food safety;
   learning systems; processed foods; artificial intelligence technologies;
   control process; machine learning; on-machines; preservation technologies;
   research trends; safety qualities; smart system; supply chain optimization;
   systematic review; quality control

---

UT 1201
AR Alamsyah DS, 2026, SMART HEAL, V40, DOI 10.1016/j.smhl.2026.100648
TI Adaptive neural network model for personalized food-allergen elimination
   diet recommendation
AU Alamsyah DS; Wibawa AP; Zakaria A/1; Musyaffa AA; Yulianto AR; Utama ABP
TC 0
SO SMART HEAL
PY 2026
AB food allergy management remains challenging due to limited allergen
   disclosure and the complexity of ingredient compositions . particularly in
   traditional cuisines such as indonesian food , which constrains the
   effectiveness of existing digital decision support approaches . this study
   aims to develop a health informaticsoriented artificial neural network ( ann
   ) framework for allergen classification and elimination diet recommendation
   . a large scale indonesian recipe dataset was constructed and annotated
   using 14 standardized allergen categories , and class imbalance was
   addressed through a hybrid strategy combining semi manual rule based data
   augmentation and random oversampling ( ros ) . the ann model was evaluated
   using binary , ordinal , and multi class classification scenarios with
   5-fold cross validation , supported by random search and bayesian
   optimization , and further examined using shap based interpretability
   analysis . the results show that the proposed framework achieves
   consistently high performance across scenarios , including perfect
   performance in binary classification and substantial improvements in macro
   averaged f1-scores in complex multi class settings when data balancing
   strategies are applied . the findings also indicate that data centric
   enhancement has a greater impact on performance robustness than
   hyperparameter tuning alone . overall , the proposed ann framework
   demonstrates potential as a reliable and interpretable component of health
   informaticsbased elimination diet recommendation systems
DE adaptive data variation; artificial neural network; elimination diet
   recommendation system; food allergen classification; smart health; tuning
   methods

---

UT 1202
AR Chen Y-C, 2025, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V84, P36755, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-025-20648-x
TI Deep learning-based automatic food identification with numeric label
AU Chen Y-C; Chiang H-C
TC 3
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2025
AB with the changes of the times and the rapid development of fast food ,
   obesity has become a common concern in modern society . it is important for
   modern people to consider how to effectively manage their diet . taking fast
   food restaurants as an example , this study proposes a numerical label
   counting method and builds a food recognition system based on deep learning
   based yolo object detection technology , in which 16 classes of well known
   fast food restaurants are trained , with a total of 1836 multi label photos
   . when the detector accuracy rate is iou = 0.6 , map can reach 93.29 % . in
   addition , the numerical label based multi count method proposed in this
   study can quickly search and count a large number of food objects with a
   time complexity of o ( nlog2n ) . in a 50-search experiment of 75 items ,
   the numerical label based multi count method can be up to 2.152 times faster
   than the text label counting method . moreover , this study uses the eigen
   cam method of xai technology to further examine the correctness of the
   results predicted by the detection model through visualization , where the
   eigen cam method is one of class activation map ( cam ) techniques for
   analyzing classification problems in computer vision . finally , users can
   use the android based app built by this study to identify and count food ,
   quickly query the calories and nutritional content of food , and record
   information related to food intake , so as to provide users with automated
   diet management
DE deep learning; explainable ai; food recognition; numerical labeling; object
   detection
ID food ingredients; activation maps; deep learning; explainable ai; fast food;
   fast food restaurants; food recognition; labelings; map methods; numerical
   labeling; objects detection; food chemistry

---

UT 1203
AR Ding H/1, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V515, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2026.149208
TI Multimodal large language models for food safety detection within deep
   learning frameworks: a review
AU Ding H/1; Chen C/1; Song X/2; Dong G; Chen H/5; Hou H; Cui X/1; Yu W;
   Wilsone DI
TC 1
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB as the food industry continues to evolves and global trade expands , food
   safety challenges have become increasingly diverse , concealed , and
   frequent . traditional methods such as cartographic analysis , mass
   spectrometry , and immunology assays offer high accuracy but suffer from
   long testing cycles , complex procedures , and low automation , limiting
   their effectiveness for high throughput , intelligent supply chain
   monitoring . recent advances in multimodal large models ( mllms ) provide
   promising solutions by integrating multi modal perception , knowledge
   enhancement , and self supervised pre training . progress from deep learning
   to cross modal intelligence and key multimodal fusion mechanisms are
   summarized , together with applications including quality assessment and
   upstream agriculture risks . current challenges involving limited data
   resources , reliable intelligence generation , energy efficiency , and
   security are discussed , highlighting future directions for intelligent food
   safety detection
DE deep learning; food safety; mllms; multi-modal fusion
ID deep learning; food contamination; food safety; humans; large language
   models; accident prevention; agriculture; energy efficiency; food safety;
   food security; international trade; mass spectrometry; deep learning; food
   industries; food safety; global trade; language model; large models;
   learning frameworks; multi-modal; multi-modal fusion; multi-modal large
   model; agriculture; automation; deep learning; food industry; food safety;
   intelligence; large language model; quality control; review; food
   contamination; human; large language model; procedures; deep learning

---

UT 1204
AR Ekrami M, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V165, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105317
TI Next-generation smart and safe foods: Artificial intelligence -driven
   strategies for 4D food pre-printing challenges
AU Ekrami M; Shokrollahi Yancheshmeh B; Roshani-Dehlaghi N; Mobahi N; Emam-
   Djomeh Z; Mohammadifar M
TC 9
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : four dimensional ( 4d ) food printing represents a novel
   evolution in additive manufacturing , enabling the fabrication of dynamic ,
   stimuli responsive edible structures . these structures can change shape ,
   texture , or functionality in response to environmental triggers , opening
   new avenues for personalized nutrition and smart food systems . however ,
   achieving precision and stability in 4d printed foods remains a challenge ,
   particularly during the pre printing phase . scope and approach : this
   review focuses on the key pre printing challenges in 4d food printing ,
   including the complexity of food ink formulation , ingredient compatibility
   , rheological performance , and bioactive stability . it further examines
   how artificial intelligence ( ai ) , specifically rule based systems ,
   machine learning ( ml ) , and deep learning ( dl ) , can address these
   issues . recent advances in ai assisted formulation modeling and predictive
   rheology are discussed as tools for improving process efficiency and product
   performance . key findings and conclusions : ai driven strategies offer
   powerful solutions to overcome formulation , compatibility , and
   reproducibility issues in 4d food printing . ml algorithms can model complex
   interactions among ingredients , while dl enhances prediction accuracy for
   texture , flow behavior , and stimuli responsiveness . by integrating ai
   into the pre printing workflow , food technologists can accelerate the
   design of functional and personalized products . future developments in ai
   guided material science and real time adaptive printing systems are expected
   to play a key role in the next generation of innovative and safe foods
DE 4d food printing; artificial intelligence; deep learning; machine learning;
   pre-printing challenges; smart foods; stimuli-responsive inks
ID food additives; food ingredients; functional food; ink; learning systems;
   printing presses; deep learning; dynamic stimuli; environmental triggers;
   food system; four-dimensional food printing; machine learning; pre-printing
   challenge; smart food; stimuli-responsive; stimulus responsive ink; deep
   learning

---

UT 1205
AR Li M/2, 2025, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13942, DOI 10.1117/12.3086887
TI Deep learning-based food recognition algorithm for refrigerators
AU Li M/2
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2025
AB this paper primarily discusses the optimization and improvement of existing
   convolutional neural networks for recognizing food images in refrigerators .
   current mainstream neural network frameworks require high computational
   power due to the addition of complex architectures such as transformers and
   attention mechanisms , which are generally difficult to run locally . this
   paper aims to streamline convolutional neural networks specifically for food
   image recognition . after optimization , the network can efficiently train
   high precision models suitable for deployment and inference on edge devices
   . the proposed convolutional neural network includes four convolutional
   layers , two pooling layers , and three fully connected layers , forming a
   relatively simple deep learning framework . its key features include the
   addition of squeeze and excitation networks after each convolutional layer
   to enhance the model s sensitivity to channel features , and normalization
   in the fully connected layers . the model has relatively low energy
   consumption due to its limited parameters . the dataset used is the food 11
   dataset from kaggle , which was processed and divided into training and
   testing sets . the accuracy of test results consistently exceeds 80 %
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food images; image recognition
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; energy
   utilization; image enhancement; learning algorithms; optimization;
   statistical tests; current; complex architectures; computational power;
   convolutional neural network; deep learning; food image; network frameworks;
   neural networks; optimizations; recognition algorithm; image recognition

---

UT 1206
AR Ye J, 2025, SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND, V46, P466, DOI
   10.13386/j.issn1002-0306.2024110238
TI Advances in Multi-source Perception Technology Integrated with Machine
   Learning in Food Quality Evaluation; [多源感知技术融合机器学习在食品品质评价中的研究进展]
AU Ye J; Zhou Y/3; Wang M; Zhou X; Tang S
TC 2
SO SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND
PY 2025
AB food quality serves as the cornerstone for ensuring food safety and
   enhancing consumer satisfaction , playing a crucial role in advancing the
   sustainable development of the food industry . machine learning
   revolutionizes food quality assessment through efficient data processing and
   precise predictive modeling , enabling scientific quality management .
   specifically , machine vision , employing image perception and analysis ,
   presents distinct advantages in detecting food attributes such as color ,
   shape , and texture , enhancing the objectivity and precision of food
   quality evaluations . near infrared spectroscopy technology utilizes the
   absorption characteristics of substances to infrared light , achieving
   nondestructive perception of composition and structure as well as in depth
   analysis of spectral features . furthermore , multi source data fusion
   integrates multi dimensional sensory data , overcoming the limitations of
   single modal characterization , optimizing production processes , and
   improving detection accuracy . this approach provides a strong guarantee of
   food quality and safety . this paper systematically reviews the current
   applications of machine vision , near infrared spectroscopy , and their
   combined use in multi source data fusion , driven by machine learning . it
   further explores advancements in characterization detection and ingredient
   analysis , identifies current challenges , and provides insights into future
   research directions to advance food quality detection and evaluation
DE food quality evaluation; machine learning; machine vision; multi-source data
   fusion; near infrared spectroscopy
ID computer vision; data accuracy; data handling; data quality; food
   ingredients; food safety; infrared devices; learning systems; machine
   learning; machine perception; machine vision; nondestructive examination;
   quality control; quality management; food quality; food quality evaluation;
   infrared spectroscopy; machine learning; machine vision; multi-source data
   fusion; multi-sources; near infrared; near infrared; quality evaluation;
   source data; near infrared spectroscopy

---

UT 1207
AR Yin J, 2026, HEAT TRANS ENG, V47, P1024, DOI 10.1080/01457632.2025.2502231
TI Real Data Driven Predictive Fouling Detection in Food Production With
   Machine Learning
AU Yin J; Jarmatz N; Mauermann M; Augustin W; Scholl S
TC 1
SO HEAT TRANS ENG
PY 2026
AB quantitative monitoring and prediction of fouling in heat exchangers could
   help to avoid product quality and food safety issues . production facilities
   that do not have inline sensors to monitor operating conditions are prone to
   fouling related problems . we introduce an approach using a noninvasive
   temperature acquisition method and deep learning technology to predict
   fouling in a heat exchanger . first , an encoder decoder long short term
   memory network is proposed to predict the output temperature of the product
   based on the temperature measured on the outside of a heat exchanger pipe .
   a random forest regression model utilizes the predicted temperature to
   estimate the fouling mass . the dataset used was acquired from several
   laboratory fouling experiments , consisting of two categories for : ( i )
   predicting product output temperature and ( ii ) fouling estimation . the
   models achieve a temperature prediction accuracy of 98.5 % and an
   approximate accuracy of 85 % in estimating the fouling mass on test data
   from the laboratory fouling experiments
ID linear regression; logistic regression; data-driven; food production; food
   safety; machine learning; production facility; products quality; quality
   safety; quantitative monitoring; quantitative prediction; safety issues;
   deep learning

---

UT 1208
AR Revelou P-K, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14060922
TI Applications of Machine Learning in Food Safety and HACCP Monitoring of
   Animal-Source Foods
AU Revelou P-K; Tsakali E; Batrinou A; Strati IF
TC 36
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB integrating advanced computing techniques into food safety management has
   attracted significant attention recently . machine learning ( ml )
   algorithms offer innovative solutions for hazard analysis critical control
   point ( haccp ) monitoring by providing advanced data analysis capabilities
   and have proven to be powerful tools for assessing the safety of animal
   source foods ( asfs ) . studies that link ml with haccp monitoring in asfs
   are limited . the present review provides an overview of ml , feature
   extraction , and selection algorithms employed for food safety . several non
   destructive techniques are presented , including spectroscopic methods ,
   smartphone based sensors , paper chromogenic arrays , machine vision , and
   hyperspectral imaging combined with ml algorithms . prospects include
   enhancing predictive models for food safety with the development of hybrid
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) models and the automation of quality control
   processes using ai driven computer vision , which could revolutionize food
   safety inspections . however , handling conceivable inclinations in ai
   models is vital to guaranteeing reasonable and exact hazard assessments in
   an assortment of nourishment generation settings . moreover , moving forward
   , the interpretability of ml models will make them more straightforward and
   dependable . conclusively , applying ml algorithms allows real time
   monitoring and predictive analytics and can significantly reduce the risks
   associated with asf consumption
DE dairy products; fish; meat; neural networks; risk assessment; supervised
   learning; unsupervised learning

---

UT 1209
AR Deshmukh MT, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V161, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105055
TI Towards intelligent food safety: Machine learning approaches for aflatoxin
   detection and risk prediction
AU Deshmukh MT; Wankhede PR; Chakole N; Kale PD; Jadhav MR; Kulkarni MB;
   Bhaiyya M
TC 39
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB aflatoxins pose a grave threat with potentially devastating health effects
   that go unnoticed in our everyday food supply , especially foods such as
   peanuts , maize , and spices , particularly in the tropics and sub tropics ,
   where climatic conditions are conducive to their production . existing
   methodologies for aflatoxin determination remain costly and time consuming ,
   preventing their implementation on a practical level for fast and widespread
   deployment through real time monitoring . this review provides a landmark ,
   integrative perspective of how artificial intelligence ( ai ) in its
   numerous forms has advanced aflatoxin detection and quantification across
   agricultural systems . in particular , this review considers the integration
   of food science and ai by understanding the application of supervised ,
   unsupervised , and reinforcement learning to spectral , image , and
   behavioral data analysis used to inform aflatoxin detection and
   quantification . combined with state of the art applications such as ai
   smartphone based diagnostics , clever storage systems , and deep learning
   models for image analysis , this review examines various cases and
   evaluations of developed models , addressing critical real world challenges
   such as sparse data , generalization across food matrices , and regulatory
   transparency . ultimately , the review addresses the willingness to adopt
   evolving ai strategies and looks to the future for faster , wiser , and more
   accessible aflatoxin detection methods for more significant public health
   protection and sustainable food systems . finally , regardless of whether
   you are a uniquely positioned researcher investigating the development of
   new models , a policymaker developing food safety regulations , an academic
   designing curriculum , or a scientist inquisitively exploring the next
   generation of food technologies , this article is a timely and convenient
   place to access knowledge leading toward safer , ai powered food systems
DE aflatoxin detection; artificial intelligence; deep learning; food safety;
   machine learning; smart diagnostics
ID agricultural robots; deep reinforcement learning; aflatoxin detection; deep
   learning; detection and quantifications; food system; food safety; health
   effects; machine learning approaches; machine learning; risk predictions;
   smart diagnostic; reinforcement learning

---

UT 1210
AR Mishra A/2, 2025, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V1,
   P5087
TI Food Detection & Calorie Estimation of Food & Beverages using Deep Learning
AU Mishra A/2; Mishra A; Gupta A
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2025
AB people nowadays , are not maintaining a healthy body due to intake of
   unnecessary and unhealthy diet . hence , it is required in recent times , to
   maintain their standard diet so they can avoid various problems related to
   obesity that because risk to their healthy body . so in this paper , we are
   presenting an automatic machine learning based novel system that classifies
   the food items , identifies them , and estimates the calories present in
   them i . e . estimation of calories is performed . we have obtained an
   accuracy of 89.48 % . for the classification of the food images and
   identification , we suggest using a convolutional neural network based on a
   deep learning model that will perform the required purpose in the training
   part of the system . the proposed model would utilize a client server
   architecture , wherein the client uploads an image . a needed algorithm on
   the server side then executes to assist in estimating the caloric content of
   the corresponding food items . here we are using the dataset of thousands of
   images from kaggle and applying the appropriate algorithm to predict the
   estimation with the best accuracy . here we will be using cnn and then pre
   trained cnn models such as mobilenet , resnet , etc
DE calorie estimation; efiicientnet1; mobilenet
ID client server computer systems; learning systems; nutrition; automatic
   machines; calorie estimations; convolutional neural network; detection
   estimation; efiicientnet1; food detection; food image; foods/beverages;
   machine learning; mobilenet; deep neural networks

---

UT 1211
AR Gautam S, 2025, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V260, P692, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2025.03.248
TI Enhancing Food Analysis with Attention-based Deep Learning: Ingredients,
   Recipes, and Calorie Estimation
AU Gautam S; Patnaik SS; Kush R; Pantola D; Mishra VK
TC 0
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB the past several decades have seen a significant increase in food s
   diversity and popularity as there is an increasing health consciousness
   regarding diet among individuals . for those who are interested in fitness ,
   tracking calories is now crucial . conversely , deep learning has become
   more popular for resolving a variety of issues related to natural language
   processing and computer vision . therefore , in order to extract components
   , recipes , and the total number of calories from the food photographs ,
   this research developed a novel deep learning based method . this work makes
   two main contributions : first , it presents a novel attention based deep
   learning model that uses transfer learning to produce recipes and food
   components from food photos . secondly , it offers a way for figuring up the
   overall caloric content by utilizing the components and amounts of the dish
   . the suggested model not only helps people by pointing out items that can
   cause allergies , but it also indicates whether a dish is vegetarian or not
   . according to experimental data , our model outperforms existing models by
   5 % improvement in the accuracy
DE attention; calories; convolution neural networks; machine learning
ID deep learning; food chemistry; food ingredients; natural language processing
   systems; nutrition; attention; calorie estimations; calory; convolution
   neural network; food analysis; language processing; learning models;
   learning-based methods; machine learning; natural languages; learning
   systems

---

UT 1212
AR Lavanya S, 2025, PROC INT CONF INTELL CYBER PHYS SYST INTERNET THINGS
   ICOICI, P1911, DOI 10.1109/ICoICI65217.2025.11252577
TI CHECK BITE: A Food Safety Guardian using Machine Learning
AU Lavanya S; Shiny A; Sandhiya K; Sivasakthi A
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL CYBER PHYS SYST INTERNET THINGS ICOICI
PY 2025
AB food safety is needed to safeguard people s health because eating spoiled or
   contaminated food can lead to deadly diseases . this paper presents a
   machine learning system that takes speech and image as inputs of food
   products . to recognize symptoms of spoiling , the app employs a
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) to scan image of fruits , vegetables ,
   or packaged foods . apart from that , users can give voice remarks on the
   state of the food , e . g . , unusual taste or smell , that can be converted
   into text and then analyzed for further analysis . the system utilizes that
   information to figure out if a specific food is healthy or unhealthy .
   furthermore , there is a special module analyzing the appropriateness of the
   food for pregnant women and children . with the aim to reduce the danger of
   food poisoning and encourage more healthy eating habits , this technology
   offers real time feedback and health advice . the study introduces a model
   for real time food quality evaluation . it enables quick detection of
   contamination , estimation of preservative levels , and guidance for users .
   it shows how combining cnn based visual analysis with sensory data can
   improve food safety around the world
DE cnn; food safety; health risk assessment; image classification; voice input
ID chemical contamination; convolutional neural networks; food microbiology;
   food safety; health risks; learning systems; machine learning; quality
   control; safety engineering; sensory analysis; convolutional neural network;
   food cans; food safety; health risk assessments; images classification;
   machine learning systems; machine learning; packaged food; scan images;
   vegetable food; risk assessment

---

UT 1213
AR Shi S, 2026, J MOL STRUCT, V1364, DOI 10.1016/j.molstruc.2026.145943
TI Spectroscopic techniques and machine learning in food analysis: Bridging the
   gap between scientific research and international standards
AU Shi S; Tian N; Jin Z; Liu K/1; Huang L/1; Tian X; Zhang Y/11
TC 0
SO J MOL STRUCT
PY 2026
AB accurate and rapid food analysis is essential for ensuring food safety and
   improving food quality . in recent years , spectroscopic techniques have
   gained increasing attention from food scientists . over the past few decades
   , there has been a growing body of research on the use of spectroscopic
   techniques in food analysis . in contrast , the development of international
   standards for spectroscopy in food analysis has stagnated . currently ,
   international standards for spectroscopy in food analysis primarily focus on
   uvvisible spectroscopy ( uvvis ) , followed by near infrared ( nir ) , mid
   infrared ( mir ) , and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( nmr ) . to
   bridge the significant gap between academic research and official standards
   , a shift from small scale feasibility studies to large scale validations is
   essential . this requires highly representative datasets and internationally
   recognized reference methods . furthermore , as the food industry embraces
   process analytical technology ( pat ) for continuous real time monitoring ,
   the dynamic nature of production environments necessitates robust model
   evaluation . implementing robust calibration transfer techniques ,
   conducting interlaboratory ring trials , and establishing open source
   spectral databases are critical for overcoming instrument variations .
   ultimately , by integrating these standardization strategies alongside
   appropriate spectral preprocessing , interpretable deep learning algorithms
   , and official analytical procedures researchers can develop highly robust
   models and accelerate the translation of spectroscopic innovations into
   practical international standards . 2026 elsevier b.v . all rights are
   reserved , including those for text and data mining , ai training , and
   similar technologies .
DE food; machine learning; near infrared; spectroscopic techniques
ID data mining; deep learning; food products; food safety; learning algorithms;
   nuclear magnetic resonance; quality control; spectroscopic analysis;
   spectrum analysis; food analysis; food safety; international standards;
   machine learning; near infrared; near infrared; research standards; robust
   modeling; scientific researches; spectroscopic technique; infrared devices;
   learning systems; nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy

---

UT 1214
AR Fragkos N, 2026, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, DOI 10.1080/10408398.2026.2654710
TI The role of artificial intelligence in combating food fraud: a systematic
   literature review
AU Fragkos N; Bouzembrak Y; Erasmus SW
TC 0
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2026
AB this study presents a systematic literature review evaluating the current
   state of artificial intelligence ( ai ) applications in combating food fraud
   . following the kitchenham framework , 69 primary studies from peer reviewed
   journals across four academic databases were identified and analyzed . the
   aim was to examine the types of fraud detected by ai , the food products
   involved , the specific ai techniques used , and the performance evaluation
   metrics utilized . most of the included studies focused on the detection of
   adulteration and mislabeling , particularly origin and quality mislabeling ,
   with spices , herbs , meat and dairy being the most frequently investigated
   food product categories . machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl )
   were the primary approaches utilized , ml was the most dominant , with
   support vector machines ( svms ) and convolutional neural networks ( cnns )
   emerging as the most frequently applied algorithms . regarding the data
   types , spectral and imaging data were predominantly used , and most models
   were developed using supervised approaches . nevertheless , despite strong
   model performance with data gathered from controlled environments such as
   labs , issues such as data availability and interpretability remain . the
   findings underscore the importance of ai applied in food fraud detection and
   the need to explore underrepresented fraud types and food categories
DE artificial intelligence; food fraud detection; machine learning; mitigation
ID convolutional neural networks; crime; deep neural networks; food products;
   reviews; support vector machines; current; spice; artificial intelligence
   techniques; food fraud detection; fraud detection; machine learning;
   mitigation; performance evaluation metrics; product categories; systematic
   literature review; learning systems

---

UT 1215
AR Zhang Q/4, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14234005
TI Application of Machine Learning in Food Safety Risk Assessment
AU Zhang Q/4; Lu Z; Liu Z/5; Li J/9; Chang M; Zuo M
TC 10
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB with the increasing globalization of supply chains , ensuring food safety
   has become more complex , necessitating advanced approaches for risk
   assessment . this study aims to review the transformative role of machine
   learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) in enabling intelligent food safety
   management by efficiently analyzing high quality and nonlinear data . we
   systematically summarize recent advances in the application of ml and dl ,
   focusing on key areas such as biotoxin detection , heavy metal contamination
   , analysis of pesticide and veterinary drug residues , and microbial risk
   prediction . while traditional algorithms including support vector machines
   and random forests demonstrate strong performance in classification and risk
   evaluation , unsupervised methods such as k means and hierarchical cluster
   analysis facilitate pattern recognition in unlabeled datasets . furthermore
   , novel dl architectures , such as convolutional neural networks , recurrent
   neural networks , and transformers , enable automated feature extraction and
   multimodal data integration , substantially improving detection accuracy and
   efficiency . in conclusion , we recommend future work to emphasize model
   interpretability , multi modal data fusion , and integration into haccp
   systems , thereby supporting intelligent , interpretable , and real time
   food safety management
DE deep learning; food safety; globalization; machine learning

---

UT 1216
AR Benajas MAP, 2025, REV ESP NUTR COMUNITARIA, V31
TI Conversational assistant based on artificial intelligence to improve
   household food planning.  Qualitative validation study in 24 households;
   [Asistente conversacional basado en inteligencia artificial para mejorar la
   planificación alimentaria doméstica.  Estudio de validación cualitativa en
   24 hogares]
AU Benajas MAP; Maurandi NB; Millán MC; Porral JM; Peña AP; Lorente EM
TC 0
SO REV ESP NUTR COMUNITARIA
PY 2025
AB background : a gap persists between available nutritional information and
   healthy domestic food decisions . this study analyzes real household needs
   to design nutricesta , an ethical ai based food assistant focused on food
   planning and healthy shopping . methods : qualitative exploratory study with
   24 families from valencia central market ( january may 2025 ) . purposive
   sampling stratified by family typology . design thinking methodology for ia
   artifact co creation through semi structured interviews and wizard of oz
   prototype simulation . ai assisted inductive thematic analysis . acceptance
   evaluation using tam . results : 58 barriers were identified grouped into 4
   dimensions : family organization ( 34.3 % ) , cognitive gap in labeling (
   22.9 % ) , shopping logistics ( 14.3 % ) and cultural diversity ( 28.6 % ) .
   nutricesta included five modules covering 81 % of barriers . high
   theoretical satisfaction ( nps 8.4/10 ) but low real implementation ( only
   33.3 % followed more than 20 % of proposed menu ) . conclusions : nutricesta
   presents high potential to reduce barriers in family food planning . the gap
   between intention and real behavior requires additional behavioral
   strategies . the model proposes a new category of domestic , ethical and
   contextualized nutritional assistant . 2025 sociedad espanola de nutricion
   comunitaria
DE artificial intelligence; conversational assistant; meal planning; nutrition
   labeling; sustainability
ID adult; article; artificial intelligence; cognition; cultural diversity;
   female; household; human; major clinical study; male; meal planning;
   nutrition labeling; semistructured interview; shopping; simulation; thematic
   analysis; validation study

---

UT 1217
AR Bhuiyan MNI, 2025, J NUTR, V155, P3179, DOI 10.1016/j.tjnut.2025.08.007
TI Harnessing Artificial Intelligence and Precision Diets for Brain Health and
   Cognitive Resilience
AU Bhuiyan MNI; Saha BK; Satter MA
TC 10
SO J NUTR
PY 2025
AB smart neuronutrition represents an emerging interdisciplinary field at the
   intersection of nutritional science , neuroscience , and artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , to enhance cognitive resilience , mental well being ,
   and healthy brain aging through precision dietary strategies . this review
   critically examined the current body of evidence on the impact of dietary
   patterns and nutrients on neurobiological processes involved in cognitive
   decline , such as oxidative stress , mitochondrial dysfunction ,
   neuroinflammation , neurotransmitter imbalance , and gutbrain axis
   dysregulation . neuroprotective dietary approaches , including the
   mediterranean , mediterranean dietary approaches to stop hypertension ( dash
   ) diet intervention for neurodegenerative delay , dash , and ketogenic diets
   , are highlighted for their anti inflammatory effects , alongside specific
   nutrients 3 fatty acids , b complex vitamins , polyphenols , and microbiota
   directed fibers that have demonstrated benefits for memory , executive
   function , and emotional stability . recent advancements in ai are driving
   the development of personalized nutrition tools that integrate multimodal
   data sources , including wearable biosensors , image based dietary tracking
   , and machine learning models predicting cognitive trajectories . these
   technologies enable real time nutrient monitoring , individualized dietary
   planning , and early identification of neurodegenerative risks . however ,
   challenges remain in the validation , scalability , and generalizability of
   ai models , especially across diverse populations . ethical concerns such as
   data privacy , algorithmic bias , and transparency further emphasize the
   need for careful regulation and interdisciplinary collaboration . this
   review offers a comprehensive synthesis of smart neuronutrition , aligning
   biological mechanisms with digital innovations , and proposes future
   research priorities . these include the development of explainable ai
   systems , integration of microbiome and omics data , and implementation of
   standardized frameworks for clinical applications . by bridging neuroscience
   , nutrition , and ai , smart neuronutrition has the potential to
   revolutionize cognitive healthcare , offering scalable , precise , and
   equitable strategies to combat the rising global burden of neurodegenerative
   disorders . 2025 american society for nutrition
DE artificial intelligence in nutrition; cognitive resilience; gutbrain axis;
   precision diets; smart neuronutrition
ID artificial intelligence; brain; cognition; cognitive dysfunction; diet;
   humans; precision medicine; fatty acid; polyphenol; accuracy; aging;
   algorithm bias; antiinflammatory activity; artificial intelligence;
   biosensor; brain; brain-gut axis; cognition; cognitive defect; dash diet;
   data privacy; degenerative disease; diet; diet therapy; dietary pattern;
   emotional stability; executive function; explainable artificial
   intelligence; human; ketogenic diet; machine learning; microbiome;
   microflora; nervous system inflammation; neuroprotection; oxidative stress;
   personalized nutrition; psychological well being; review; system analysis;
   therapy; wearable device; cognitive defect; personalized medicine;
   physiology; prevention and control

---

UT 1218
AR Mir MA, 2025, EMERG CONTAM, V11, DOI 10.1016/j.emcon.2025.100477
TI Microplastics in food products: Prevalence, artificial intelligence based
   detection, and potential health impacts on humans
AU Mir MA; Ali Khan MA; Banik BK; Hasnain SM; Alzayer L; Andrews K/1; Abba SI
TC 29
SO EMERG CONTAM
PY 2025
AB microplastic contamination in food products has become a growing concern due
   to its potential implications for human health , the environment , and food
   safety . over the past decade , microplastics have been detected in a wide
   variety of food items , including seafood , salt , processed foods , and
   beverages . this review provides a comprehensive description of the sources
   , detection methods , and health risks associated with microplastics in food
   . the contamination pathways , including inhalation , and dermal contact ,
   are discussed , with a focus on the most common exposure route ingestion
   through contaminated food and water . among the health hazards that
   microplastics present include oxidative stress , immune system disturbance ,
   neurotoxicity , reproductive toxicity , and possible carcinogenic
   consequences . concerns about nanoplastics toxicity are heightened by their
   capacity to cross biological barriers and build up in tissues . the research
   also highlights the necessity of better detection methods , like
   multispectral imaging and ai based algorithms , to increase the precision
   and effectiveness of microplastic identification in food . it also talks
   about how crucial it is to comprehend the origins and routes of
   contamination in order to lessen the impact of microplastics in the food
   supply chain . critical future research directions are outlined including
   the creation of regulatory frameworks to restrict exposure to microplastics
   , standardized detection techniques , and longitudinal human health studies
   . the evaluation also highlights the need for comprehensive measures to
   combat microplastic contamination in food by promoting public awareness
   campaigns and the creation of sustainable alternatives to plastic packaging
DE contamination; food; health; humans; plastics

---

UT 1219
AR Kukde RB, 2026, FOOD WASTE VALORIZATION CIRC ECON, P313, DOI
   10.1201/9781003590156-18
TI Artificial Intelligence in Tackling Food Waste Management
AU Kukde RB; Rout RK; Ghadge A; Sivamma P; Thakare V
TC 0
SO FOOD WASTE VALORIZATION CIRC ECON
PY 2026
AB food waste relates to the food designated for human consumption that is lost
   or discarded , occurring at any stage in the food supply system , from
   farming and harvesting to households . according to the mcafpd 2022 study ,
   each indian household wastes around 50 kilograms of food every year . in the
   fusion report ( 2014 ) , food wastage stands for not only food components
   that are edible but also inedible components that are removed from the food
   supply chain and recovered or disposed of ( such as composted , unharvested
   or plowed crops , anaerobic digestion , bio energy production , co
   generation , incineration , disposal to sewer , landfill , or dumped into
   the ocean ) . this definition omits the parts that are recycled for feed ,
   biologically derived substances , and biochemical processes ( ostergren et
   al . , 2014 )
ID crops; food chemistry; food ingredients; food supply; food waste;
   incineration; anaerobics; bio-energy; energy productions; food components;
   food supply chain; food wastages; food waste; household waste; human
   consumption; supply system; anaerobic digestion

---

UT 1220
AR Saha D, 2026, HEAL - WORK LINGUIST ANAL HEAL PROC WORK, P67, DOI
   10.18653/v1/2026.healing-1.6
TI A Graph-Augmented Liquid Neural Network for Extracting Food Hazards and
   Disease Outbreaks
AU Saha D; Jana S; Sinha M; Verma I; Aggarwal V; Dasgupta T
TC 0
SO HEAL - WORK LINGUIST ANAL HEAL PROC WORK
PY 2026
AB the increasing frequency of foodborne illnesses , safety hazards , and
   disease outbreaks in the food supply chain demands urgent attention to
   protect public health . these incidents , ranging from contamination to
   intentional adulteration of food and feed , pose serious risks to consumers
   , leading to poisoning , and disease outbreaks that lead to product recalls
   . identifying and tracking the sources and pathways of contamination is
   essential for timely intervention and prevention . this paper explores the
   use of social media and regulatory news reports to detect food safety issues
   and disease outbreaks . we present an automated approach leveraging a multi
   task sequence labeling and sequence classification model that uses a liquid
   time constant neural network augmented with a graph convolution network to
   extract and analyze relevant information from social media posts and
   official reports . our methodology includes the creation of annotated
   datasets of social media content and regulatory documents , enabling the
   model to identify foodborne infections and safety hazards in real time .
   preliminary results demonstrate that our model outperforms baseline models ,
   including advanced large language models like llama 3 and mistral 7b , in
   terms of accuracy and efficiency . the integration of liquid neural networks
   significantly reduces computational and memory requirements , achieving
   superior performance with just 1.2 e6 bytes of memory , compared to the 20.3
   gb of gpu memory needed by traditional transformer based models . this
   approach offers a promising solution for leveraging social media data in
   monitoring and mitigating food safety risks and public health threats
ID chemical contamination; computational linguistics; diseases; food safety;
   food supply; graph neural networks; health hazards; health risks; social
   networking ( online ); disease outbreaks; food hazards; food supply chain;
   foodborne illness; food safety; neural networks; products recalls; risk to
   consumers; safety hazards; social media; public risks

---

UT 1221
AR Xiong H-H, 2026, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V170, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2026.105612
TI The application and development of artificial intelligence in functional
   food research
AU Xiong H-H; Xu Y-J
TC 0
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB background : functional foods have garnered increasing scientific interest
   due to their unique health promoting properties . traditional functional
   food research suffers from time consuming nature and low reproducibility .
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) , especially machine learning ( ml ) , has
   been demonstrated to enhance the innovation and advances of functional food
   research . scope and approach : this article discussed the applications of
   ai algorithms and models in the field of functional foods . moreover , the
   recent development and trends of ai in functional foods were also reviewed ,
   with a focus on the component analysis , biological evaluation and food
   processing . key findings and conclusions : in recent years , ai algorithms
   , encompassing ml , dl and other paradigms , have been employed in
   functional food research . ai driven methodologies have been reported to
   analyze compound and omics data and construct mathematical or
   physicochemical models , aiming to identify and predict novel bioactive
   compounds , elucidate nutritional mechanisms , as well as promote
   personalized nutrition . the introduction of ai in food processing ,
   including food design , processing optimization , food packaging and food
   quality control markedly accelerates innovations in novel functional foods
   and improves the productivity of health oriented foods . despite these
   notable advancements , challenges persist in algorithm adaptation and
   compatibility . this review intends to provide a comprehensive and critical
   overview of artificial intelligence in functional foods
DE artificial intelligence; bioactive ingredient analysis; biological
   evaluation; functional foods; process optimization
ID food ingredients; food processing; functional food; learning systems;
   nutrition; optimization; processed foods; quality control; artificial
   intelligence algorithms; bioactive ingredient analyze; bioactive
   ingredients; biological evaluation; food research; functionals; machine
   learning; process optimization; property; reproducibilities; artificial
   intelligence

---

UT 1222
AR Fan D/1, 2026, PROC INT CONF COMPUT SCI MANAG TECHNOL ICCSMT, P7, DOI
   10.1145/3795154.3795156
TI Enhancing Food Delivery Efficiency Using Machine Learning and Deep Learning
   for Predictive Delay Classification
AU Fan D/1
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF COMPUT SCI MANAG TECHNOL ICCSMT
PY 2026
AB this study employs real world data from a food delivery platform to tackle
   the challenge of predicting delivery lateness among riders , with the aim of
   enhancing delivery efficiency and user experience . the research involves
   meticulous cleaning and preprocessing of raw data , as well as enriching the
   data dimensions through the incorporation of key features such as geographic
   block partitioning and predicted delivery speed . to address the issue of
   class imbalance , a random undersampling strategy is implemented . the study
   compares the performance of seven machine learning and deep learning models
   , including logistic regression , decision tree , random forest , stacking ,
   light gradient boosting machine ( lightgbm ) , deep neural network ( dnn ) ,
   along with one dimensional convolutional neural network ( 1d cnn ) , in
   predicting rider tardiness . model hyperparameters are optimized using
   random search strategy , with the f2 score employed as the primary
   evaluation metric . the findings reveal that the stacking ensemble model ,
   following undersampling and hyperparameter optimization , outperforms other
   individual models in terms of both predictive accuracy and robustness . this
   study successfully develops an efficient delivery prediction model ,
   offering substantial support for delivery platforms in facilitating
   intelligent decision making for riders . it contributes to mitigating social
   conflicts and resource wastage and provides novel insights for enhancing the
   accuracy of estimated arrival times on delivery platforms
DE deep learning; delivery lateness prediction; error analysis; feature
   engineering; machine learning
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; decision
   trees; deep neural networks; human computer interaction; learning systems;
   logistic regression; random forests; user experience; user interfaces; data
   dimensions; deep learning; delivery lateness prediction; feature
   engineerings; food delivery; key feature; machine learning; real-world;
   stackings; users experiences; error analysis

---

UT 1223
AR Ahmed N, 2025, THEOR APPL CLIM, V156, DOI 10.1007/s00704-025-05475-2
TI Enhancing food security: machine learning-based wheat yield prediction using
   remote sensing and climate data in Pakistan
AU Ahmed N; Mahmood SA; Haseeb M; Tahir Z; Batool S
TC 2
SO THEOR APPL CLIM
PY 2025
AB in the dynamic landscape of agricultural forecasting , the utilization of
   machine learning ( ml ) algorithms has proven superior in unveiling
   intricate nonlinear relationships compared to classical statistical
   methodologies . this research aims to predict wheat yield by harnessing the
   power of ml techniques , employing remote sensing and climatic data to
   safeguard the food security . leveraging four remote sensing indices ( gndvi
   , ndvi , evi , savi ) alongside four climatic variables ( tmax , tmin , ppt
   , ws ) and one reconnaissance drought index ( rdi ) , the study explores
   eight distinct model combinations within two scenarios one encompassing rdi
   ( scenario 1 ) and the other excluding it ( scenario 2 ) . employing random
   forest ( rf ) as a nonlinear ml algorithm and lasso as a linear model , the
   research seeks to identify the most effective combination and ml algorithm
   for wheat yield prediction . the results uncover compelling insights : in
   scenario 1 , rf regression excelled notably with the model combination (
   savi + rdi + ws ) , yielding an impressive r2 of 0.82 and rmse of 1.87.
   likewise , in scenario 2 , rf surpassed lasso performance , showcasing the (
   savi + tmax + tmin + ppt + pet + ws ) model combination with the highest r2
   of 0.88 and the lowest rmse of 1.58 , closely followed by ( gndvi + tmax +
   tmin + ppt + pet + ws . r2 = 0.83 ) . remarkably , linear lasso demonstrated
   comparable performance with rf in both scenarios , displaying r2 values
   ranging from 0.66 to 0.78 in scenario 1 and 0.71 to 0.81 in scenario 2 .
   based on these findings , we recommend using scenario 2 for wheat yield
   prediction , integrating climate data and vegetation indices for more
   reliable forecasting . policymakers and agricultural planners can leverage
   these insights to implement data driven strategies for enhancing food
   security , optimizing resource allocation , and mitigating climate induced
   risks in wheat production . this study highlights the critical role of ml in
   improving agricultural decision making , offering a scalable and precise
   approach for yield prediction to support sustainable food production and
   climate resilience strategies . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license
   to springer verlag gmbh austria , part of springer nature 2025 .
ID pakistan; algorithm; crop yield; food production; food security; machine
   learning; ndvi; remote sensing; wheat

---

UT 1224
AR Rai BK, 2025, DISCOV FOOD, V5, DOI 10.1007/s44187-025-00661-7
TI Classifying food ingredients using machine learning on nutritional and
   biochemical data
AU Rai BK; Chandan NS; Marangappanavar DN; Indira S; Kumar G
TC 1
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2025
AB the increasing demand for healthier food alternatives has highlighted the
   need for nutritional intelligence in evaluating food quality . for this
   purpose , the nutritional and biochemical characteristics of each food
   ingredient should be classified to develop intelligent food recommendation
   systems and to help individuals make informed dietary choices . this study
   uses nutritional and biochemical data to investigate the applicability of
   machine learning techniques in the categorization of food ingredients into
   healthy and unhealthy . six algorithms namely , decision tree , random
   forest , support vector machine , logistic regression , k nearest neighbors
   , and extreme gradient boosting were implemented and compared to assess
   their predictive capabilities . the experimental results indicate that
   xgboost outperformed all other models , with an average accuracy of 94 % ,
   demonstrating its better generalization and predictive power based on the
   ensemble gradient boosting technique . random forest and knn have also
   achieved a remarkable 92 % accuracy owing to ensemble learning and distance
   based decision limits , respectively . the findings demonstrate how machine
   learning can be effectively used to advance nutrition intelligence , as well
   as providing a comprehensive and extensible foundation for incorporating
   computational approaches into current food assessments and tailored
   healthcare
DE food ingredient classification; machine learning; predictive modeling
ID adaptive boosting; biochemistry; decision trees; food additives; food
   chemistry; food ingredients; logistic regression; nearest neighbor search;
   nutrition; random forests; support vector machines; biochemical data; food
   ingredient classification; food ingredients; food quality; gradient
   boosting; healthy foods; machine learning; nutritional characteristics;
   predictive models; random forests; learning systems

---

UT 1225
AR Kukade J, 2025, LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST, V43, P357, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-9855-1_25
TI Inverse Cooking: Food Image to Recipe Generation Using Machine Learning
AU Kukade J; Bhushanwar K; Birle V; Buchade D; Mishra T; Pandit D; Apurva K
TC 0
SO LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST
PY 2025
AB the reason foodies are wonderful is that they adore food . every dish has a
   backstory revealed by an intricate recipe . sadly , many people miss this
   because dish photos frequently contain false information . as a result , we
   present an inverted cooking system in this paper that can replicate various
   cooking visuals for lovers . our unique system uses a sleek new model to
   predict ingredients , model their expectations without judgment , and then
   start creating cooking suggestions by focusing on both the image and the
   ingredients the image evokes . we like to comprehensively evaluate all
   systems in the vast recipe1m database and show that we have improved
   performance compared to last season s preliminary forecast . we can do good
   things using images and menus , and our system can create more exciting
   menus than the access process based on human judgment
DE cnn ( convolutional neural network ); data augmentation; feature extraction;
   food classification; machine learning
ID food ingredients; convolutional neural network; cooking systems; data
   augmentation; features extraction; food classification; food image; machine
   learning; performance; system use; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1226
AR Adhikari S, 2025, INT FOOD AGRIBUS MANAG REV, V28, P441, DOI
   10.22434/ifamr1131
TI Bridging taste and health: the role of machine learning in consumer food
   selection
AU Adhikari S; McFadden BR
TC 3
SO INT FOOD AGRIBUS MANAG REV
PY 2025
AB navigating the modern food landscape is complex , often leading consumers to
   make suboptimal dietary choices due to information , time constraints , and
   psychological vulnerabilities . machine learning ( ml ) presents a promising
   solution to enhance the contemporary grocery shopping experience by
   providing personalized dietary recommendations tailored to individual
   preferences and characteristics . traditional methods of dietary guidance
   can not account for nuanced consumer characteristics and preferences . in
   contrast , ml algorithms can incorporate specific information about
   individuals and continuously adapt to provide personalized recommendations ,
   considering factors like historical eating habits , socio demographics ,
   nutritional requirements , etc . this paper explores the potential value of
   ml in enhancing personalized dietary recommendations , focusing on
   personalization at scale and sustained behavior modification . additionally
   , it discusses how retailers can integrate ml into the shopping experience
   to offer customized recommendations based on consumer and inventory data .
   future innovations , such as incorporating biometric data , further enhance
   the precision of personalized recommendations and support food is medicine
   programs . by doing so , ml can offer opportunities for retailers to improve
   customer satisfaction and loyalty by providing personalized recommendations
   aligned with consumer centric marketing strategies . by guiding consumer
   food choices , ml recommendations can potentially improve shopping
   experiences and benefit consumers and retailers . 2025 adhikari and mcfadden
DE food choice; personalization at scale; personalized dietary recommendation;
   sustained behavior modification

---

UT 1227
AR Bidyalakshmi T, 2025, FOOD ENG REV, V17, P27, DOI 10.1007/s12393-024-09386-2
TI Application of Artificial Intelligence in Food Processing: Current Status
   and Future Prospects
AU Bidyalakshmi T; Jyoti B; Mansuri SM; Srivastava A/2; Mohapatra D; Kalnar YB;
   Narsaiah K; Indore N
TC 63
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is a cutting edge technology that emulates
   human like intelligence or human brain like cognitive abilities . through ai
   , machines have become capable of performing tasks previously reserved for
   human expertise . this paper explores the vast array of applications for ai
   in agriculture , spanning from pre harvest operations to post harvest
   activities . the applications encompass precision farming , controlled
   environment agriculture , food processing , post harvest handling , and
   storage . integrating ai into each stage of the food processing industry has
   led to substantial enhancements in efficiency , product quantity , and
   quality . this work provides a comprehensive summary of the applications of
   ai in the food processing industry , delving into the various methodologies
   developed to address challenges within the food supply chain that profoundly
   impact the food processing sector . the focus is on how ai technologies have
   revolutionized and optimized different unit operations in food processing .
   by harnessing ai s potential , industries have experienced improvements in
   yield , minimized waste , and streamlined production processes . the paper
   underscores the transformational role of ai in shaping the future of
   agriculture and food processing , highlighting its potential to alleviate
   pressing challenges in food production , distribution , and sustainability .
   moreover , it emphasizes the need for continued research and development to
   ensure responsible and ethical ai adoption while harnessing its benefits to
   meet the growing demands of a global population . overall , the study aims
   to contribute to a deeper understanding of ai s revolutionary impact in
   reshaping the food processing landscape and ensuring food security for
   future generations
DE artificial intelligence; food supply chain; post-harvest handling; storage
ID chains; cognitive ability; current status; cutting edge technology; food
   processing industry; food supply chain; future prospects; human brain;
   human-like intelligence; post-harvest handling; post-harvest; food storage

---

UT 1228
AR Roobini MS, 2025, PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL SOLUT ICFTS, DOI
   10.1109/ICFTS62006.2025.11031514
TI Identify and Analyze the Healthy and Unhealthy Food Items Using Deep
   Learning
AU Roobini MS; Anjali G; Rayen SJ; Clarinda S; Muneera MN
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL SOLUT ICFTS
PY 2025
AB in the recent past , nutrition received wider attention in preventing
   chronic diseases . poor eating habits are the main contributors to health
   problems globally . it is essential to know and differentiate between
   healthy and unhealthy food products for a healthier diet . this study
   introduces a deep learning model that would classify food images as healthy
   or unhealthy based on their visual attributes . we adopt a cnn based
   architecture to feature extraction from images of food products and classify
   them as healthy or unhealthy . the cnn is trained on a large dataset of
   labeled food images by using transfer learning techniques to improve the
   performance . the experimental results clearly show that our proposed method
   has the ability to categorize food items accurately and with high
   classification accuracy and robustness to variations in food presentation
   and image quality . this research contributes to the computer vision and
   dietary assessment area by offering an automated , scalable solution for
   assessing healthiness based on visual cues related to food choice . future
   work includes extending the dataset with even more varied types of food and
   deep learning architectures in order to better improve the accuracy of
   classification
DE cnn-convolutional neural network; deep learning; food image analysis;
   unhealthy food detection
ID classification ( of information ); food products; image analysis; image
   classification; image enhancement; large datasets; learning systems;
   nutrition; chronic disease; cnn-convolutional neural network; convolutional
   neural network; deep learning; food detection; food image; food image
   analyze; image analyze; image analysis; unhealthy food detection; deep
   learning

---

UT 1229
AR Yang X/2, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V492, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.145383
TI Artificial intelligence-driven food quality prediction: Applying machine
   learning ensemble models for dynamic forecasting of pork pH and meat color
   changes
AU Yang X/2; Zhu L; Jiang W; Yang Y/2; Niu L; Zhao Y/1; Wang Y/9; Chen L/4; Gan
   M; Zhu L/1; Shen L
TC 14
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB this study presents a food chemistry driven approach to predict post
   slaughter pork quality dynamics , focusing on the biochemical mechanisms
   governing ph evolution and meat color development over 48 h . the
   interconversion of myoglobin redox states and the cascade of glycolytic
   reactions fundamentally determine meat quality through complex chemical
   pathways . using multi source data from 1284 pigs across 24 breeds , we
   developed and optimized machine learning ensemble models , including
   lightgbm , xgboost , and random forest , to capture these chemical
   transformations . our ensemble learning methods achieved superior prediction
   accuracy , with r2 values exceeding 0.7 for both ph and color attributes .
   feature importance analysis revealed early ph values and muscle structural
   characteristics as critical predictors , aligning with key biochemical
   processes such as anaerobic glycolysis , protein denaturation kinetics , and
   myoglobin redox reactions . these insights underscore the intricate
   interplay between chemical mechanisms and sensory traits , providing a
   precise alternative to traditional evaluation methods . the chemical basis
   of pork quality prediction established in this study offers a scalable
   framework for integrating genetic , environmental , and processing factors ,
   ultimately enhancing quality control precision and sustainability in meat
   production through the application of food chemistry principles
DE ensemble learning; machine learning models; meat color; myoglobin oxidation
   state; ph values dynamics; pork quality prediction; protein denaturation
   kinetics
ID animals; artificial intelligence; color; food quality; hydrogen-ion
   concentration; machine learning; meat; swine; biochemistry; colorimetry;
   food chemistry; forecasting; learning systems; machine learning; meats;
   quality control; reaction kinetics; redox reactions; myoglobin; denaturation
   kinetics; ensemble learning; machine learning models; meat color; myoglobin
   oxidation state; oxidation state; ph value; ph value dynamic; pork
   qualities; pork quality prediction; protein denaturation; protein
   denaturation kinetic; quality prediction; anaerobic glycolysis; article;
   artificial intelligence; biochemistry; breed; color; controlled study;
   ensemble learning; food quality; glycolysis; machine learning; meat;
   oxidation reduction reaction; oxidation reduction state; ph; pork; protein
   denaturation; animal; artificial intelligence; color; food quality; ph; pig;
   color

---

UT 1230
AR Kumar S/2, 2025, INT CONF ENERGY EFFIC AGRIC ENG EE AE - CONF PROC, DOI
   10.1109/EEAE65901.2025.11273475
TI Understanding the Drivers of Organic Food Consumption: A Machine Learning
   Approach Towards Consumer Behaviour
AU Kumar S/2; Bhattacharya D; Banerjee A/2; Banerjee M
TC 0
SO INT CONF ENERGY EFFIC AGRIC ENG EE AE - CONF PROC
PY 2025
AB this study uses advanced machine learning techniques to investigate consumer
   behavior toward organic food consumption in india . data were collected
   through an online survey distributed across various social media platforms ,
   resulting in 1,90 respondents from different indian states . the research
   focused on key factors , including knowledge , motivation , subjective norms
   , health , price , availability , consumption behavior , attitude , and
   behavior control of participants . a comparative analysis was conducted
   using multiple machine learning algorithms : logistic regression , support
   vector machines ( svm ) , k nearest neighbors , random forest , naive bayes
   , neural networks , and decision trees . after using five evaluation metrics
   , the decision tree model demonstrated superior performance , achieving a
   mean rank of 1.8. additionally , these models ranked the variables affecting
   behavioral intention . price and motivation emerged as the most significant
   predictors of organic food consumption behavior . the findings contribute to
   understanding organic food consumption patterns and can inform marketing
   strategies and policy decisions in the organic food industry . future
   research aims to refine and deploy these models for practical implementation
   , potentially enhancing decision making processes in the organic food market
DE consumer behavior; machine learning; organic food consumption; predictive
   modeling
ID barium compounds; commerce; decision trees; food supply; learning systems;
   logistic regression; motivation; nearest neighbor search; random forests;
   support vector regression; food consumption; key factors; machine learning
   approaches; machine learning techniques; machine learning; online surveys;
   organic food consumption; organic foods; predictive models; social media
   platforms; consumer behavior

---

UT 1231
AR Alkalbani N, 2026, FOOD CHEM X, V34, DOI 10.1016/j.fochx.2026.103628
TI Artificial intelligence in functional food innovation: Bioactive enhancement
   and formulation optimization: A quasi-systematic review
AU Alkalbani N; Shahin L; Benzeghiba H; Obaid RS; Osaili TM; Cheik Ismail L; Al
   qasssimi G; Rauf M; Abdulrahim K; Almashgouni A; Ashuweihi F; AL-Fuqaha D
TC 1
SO FOOD CHEM X
PY 2026
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is increasingly integrated into functional
   food research . this quasi systematic review analyzes 53 peer reviewed
   studies ( 20152025 ) to outline current applications and emerging directions
   , including the underexplored domain of antioxidant food development . the
   review attempts to provide an updated synthesis of ai approaches across
   compound discovery , metabolomics , and consumer modeling , emphasizing
   knowledge gaps and opportunities for methodological integration . data
   driven ai ( classical machine learning ) and deep learning methods have been
   applied to predict antioxidant activity , identify bioactive compounds , and
   reveal patterns in metabolomic data . unsupervised approaches have assisted
   in clustering complex datasets , whereas optimization algorithms supported
   the adjustment of sensory , nutritional , and functional attributes .
   however , many current systems remain limited to in silico findings ,
   lacking experimental or clinical validation . consumer modeling remains
   largely predictive , with limited integration of ethical and regulatory
   dimensions . continued collaboration between food scientists and data
   scientists is essential for translating computational insights into
   practical applications
DE bioactive compounds; bioavailability; explainable ai; functional foods;
   metabolomics; multiomics; optimization
ID antioxidants; biochemistry; clustering algorithms; deep learning; food
   chemistry; functional food; learning systems; omics; bioactive compounds;
   bioavailability; explainable artificial intelligence; food innovations;
   functionals; metabolomics; multi-omic; optimizations; systematic review;
   antioxidant assay; artificial intelligence; bioavailability; consumer
   attitude; deep learning; food handling; food innovation; functional food;
   fuzzy logic; genetic algorithm; high throughput analysis; in silico design;
   intestine flora; knowledge gap; metabolomics; multiomics; nutritional value;
   personalized nutrition; prediction; review; systematic review ( topic );
   optimization

---

UT 1232
AR Alkanan ZT, 2025, FOOD SCI NUTR, V13, DOI 10.1002/fsn3.70643
TI Exploring the Frontiers of Food Science: A Comprehensive Review of Advanced
   Magnetic Resonance Applications in Food Analysis, Quality Analysis, and
   Safety Assessment
AU Alkanan ZT; Altemimi AB; Awlqadr FH; Alkaisy QH; Hashemi SMB; Pratap-Singh A
TC 9
SO FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2025
AB magnetic resonance ( mr ) technologies , such as nuclear magnetic resonance
   ( nmr ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) , and electron spin resonance (
   esr ) , have been identified as fundamental tools in the modern food science
   , which allows virtually high precision and non invasive detection during
   quality assessment , safety analysis , and authenticity verification . this
   path reveals the adaptability of mr technologies and their importance across
   various food aspects . the article emphasizes their utilization in ensuring
   proper composition , detecting fraudulent elements , and monitoring changes
   during processing and storage in different food products . the application
   of mr techniques in the analysis of the dairy and cheese industries , has
   indeed proven to be a necessity in the profiling of metabolites , analyzing
   ripening stages , and antioxidant stability assessment , when coupled with
   quality control and regulatory compliance . moreover , mr ai driven food
   analysis propels the development of ai , which supports functionality with
   high processing speeds , prediction modeling , and quick safety diagnostics
   . these new technologies do not only simplify food authentication and
   traceability but they also contribute to sustainability and customer
   transparency . the review , by displaying the key breakthroughs and the
   possibilities , keeps pace with the main role of mr technologies in food
   science , which is the driving force behind innovation and the meeting of
   global food systems ever changing needs . 2025 the author ( s ) . food
   science and nutrition published by wiley periodicals llc .
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ) in food analysis; food authentication;
   foodomics; magnetic resonance; nuclear magnetic resonance

---

UT 1233
AR Kanicheril Ambikalekshmi A, 2026, FOOD SAF HEAL, V4, P82, DOI
   10.1002/fsh3.70050
TI Advancing Food Safety Through Artificial Intelligence: A Detailed Review of
   Monitoring and Detection Technologies
AU Kanicheril Ambikalekshmi A; Pushparaj P; Cherian E; Rajan R; Mohan L
TC 4
SO FOOD SAF HEAL
PY 2026
AB this review paper provides a comprehensive overview of how artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) is transforming food safety , particularly in detection
   and surveillance technologies . it highlights ai approaches such as machine
   learning ( ml ) , deep learning ( dl ) , natural language processing ( nlp )
   , and computer vision , emphasizing their role in detecting physical ,
   chemical , and microbial contaminants , ensuring quality control , and
   predicting outbreaks . this paper also examines real world applications and
   recent case studies while addressing challenges such as data privacy ,
   technical barriers , and regulatory acceptance . furthermore , it proposes
   future research directions , including aiiot integration , blockchain
   enabled traceability , and quantum computing applications . by synthesizing
   recent developments ( 20212024 ) , this review aims to guide researchers ,
   policymakers , and industry stakeholders toward leveraging ai for a safer
   and more resilient food supply chain . 2025 the author ( s ) . food safety
   and health published by john wiley and sons australia , ltd on behalf of
   international association of dietetic nutrition and safety .
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision; deep learning; food safety;
   machine learning

---

UT 1234
AR Hussain MA, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15010090
TI Machine Learning in Transforming the Food Industry
AU Hussain MA; Khan MIH/1; Karim A
TC 5
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB the continued evolution and advances in artificial intelligence ( ai )
   technologies are offering innovative solutions and setting the futuristic
   trends in the food sector . the use of different machine learning ( ml )
   -based models has demonstrated promising applications in the food processing
   industry . processing operations such as drying , frying , cooking , heating
   , and baking are complex and challenged by multifaceted problems due to
   simultaneous heat , mass and momentum transport processes . the ml based
   tools could potentially categorize each food material and efficiently
   predict its processing kinetics for optimization of the processing
   conditions . furthermore , ml technologies have shown excellent applications
   in ensuring the traceability of food provenance and quality , enhancing the
   transparency and traceability from farm to fork , and providing consumers
   with more reliable product information . overall , ml tools have untapped
   potential to identify and accelerate multiple development opportunities
   across the entire agri food sector to improve productivity , profitability ,
   and sustainability in the future
DE agri-food sector; artificial intelligence; food processing; machine
   learning; sustainability
ID artificial intelligence; consumer; controlled study; cooking; food; food
   industry; food processing; frying; heat; heating; human; kinetics; machine
   learning; pharmaceutics; review

---

UT 1235
AR Li J/10, 2023, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V12719, DOI 10.1117/12.2685778
TI Recognition of expiry data on food packages based on deep learning
AU Li J/10; Zheng J
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2023
AB there is a great deal of information on food packaging , including the name
   of the food , the expiry date and the ingredients . this information ,
   especially the expiration date , needs to be printed correctly before the
   product is brought to market . failure to print the correct expiration date
   can lead to public health problems and recalled products causing financial
   losses to the company . in this work , we propose an automatic detection and
   identification of validity areas that can be achieved efficiently and
   accurately . first , the dbnet network based approach is applied to detect
   the expiration date region on food packages . then the detected expiration
   date area is intercepted and input to the character recognition network crnn
   for character recognition . finally , the proposed model is deployed on
   jetson xavier nx to implement edge computing of the algorithm , while
   inference acceleration of the model is performed using tensorrt and fp16 or
   int8 quantization . the experimental results show that the method achieves
   good performance in the detection and identification of expiration dates on
   different types of food packages , and the method has good real time and
   portability
DE character recognition; crnn; dbnet; embedded; model quantization
ID deep learning; inference engines; losses; automatic detection; automatic
   identification; crnn; dbnet; detection and identifications; embedded;
   financial loss; food package; food packaging; modeling quantizations;
   character recognition

---

UT 1236
AR Nijloveanu D, 2024, AGRIC, V14, DOI 10.3390/agriculture14101837
TI The Development of a Prediction Model Related to Food Loss and Waste in
   Consumer Segments of Agrifood Chain Using Machine Learning Methods
AU Nijloveanu D; Tița V; Bold N; Popescu DA; Smedescu D; Smedescu C; Fîntîneru
   G
TC 5
SO AGRIC
PY 2024
AB food loss and waste ( flw ) is a primary focus topic related to all human
   activity . this phenomenon has a great deal of importance due to its effect
   on the economic and social aspects of human systems . the most integrated
   approach to food waste analysis is based on the study of flw alongside the
   agrifood chain , which has also been performed in previous studies by the
   authors . this paper presents a modality of determination of food loss and
   waste effects with an emphasis on consumer segments in agrifood chains in
   the form of a predictive model based on statistical data collected based on
   specific methods in romania . the determination is made comparatively ,
   using two predictive machine learning based methods and separate instruments
   ( software ) , in order to establish the best model that fits the collected
   data structure . in this matter , a decision tree approach ( dta ) and a
   neural network approach ( nna ) will be developed , and common methodologies
   of the approaches will be applied . the results will determine predictive
   outcomes for a specific food waste ( fw ) agent ( e . g . , consumer ) based
   on pattern recognition of the collected data . the results showed relatively
   high accuracy predictions , especially for the nn approach , with lower
   performances using the dta . the effects of the application of this
   predictive model will be expected to improve the food loss prevention
   measures within economic contexts when applied to real life scenarios
DE agri-food chain; consumer; decision tree; economic behavior; food loss; food
   waste; neural network; predictive model

---

UT 1237
AR Bajaj A, 2024, PROC INT CONF ARTIF INTELL EMERG TECHNOL GLOB AI SUMMIT,
   P149, DOI 10.1109/GlobalAISummit62156.2024.10947852
TI Exploring Block Chain's Potential in the Global Food Supply Chain Through
   Machine Learning Analysis
AU Bajaj A; Mallick AK; Nath N; Akurati M; Hussien M; Singh B
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF ARTIF INTELL EMERG TECHNOL GLOB AI SUMMIT
PY 2024
AB in this research , aim is to assess the possibility of using the block chain
   technology and machine learning in the global food supply chain revolution .
   initial applications of pwc study have two main areas of focus : in
   compliance and certification audit support and monitoring sustainability
   practices . random forest had an accuracy of 92 % in compliance and
   certification , specificity of 89 % and 91 % , respectively , sensitivity
   and f1 score to be 90 % , which shows it was highly efficient to classify
   adherence to food safety regulations and certification standards . on the
   other hand , sustainability monitoring took huge profitability due to dbscan
   clustering , with a silhouette score of 0.75 , which successfully detected
   sustainability clusters . the results show that apriori association rule
   learning extracted strong relationships between sustainability practices and
   certifications , due to a high confidence level ( 0.85 ) and lift ( 2.10 ) .
   t sne reduced the data to 2d dimensions which provides a great visualization
   of sustainability data ( explained variance ratio = 0.85 , reconstruction
   error = 0.05 ) . the current research lays stress on how block chain and
   machine learning can actually transform performance of supply chain
   efficiency , transparency and sustainability . the encapsulated outputs and
   the overall process could be applied more generally to broader food supply
   chains , and complemented with state of the art ai tools for predictive
   analytics as well as automated decision making . thus , setting the stage
   for a new era of logistics and sustainability in logistical practices across
   the globe
DE blockchain; compliance; food supply chain; machine learning; sustainability
ID blockchain; compliance; f1 scores; food safety regulations; food supply
   chain; machine learning; random forests; safety certification;
   sustainability practices; technology learning; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 1238
AR Mezzina G, 2022, IEEE SENSORS LET, V6, DOI 10.1109/LSENS.2022.3191410
TI Preventing Food Waste by the Shelf-Life Dynamical Control in Smart Homes
AU Mezzina G; Ciccarese D; De Venuto D
TC 10
SO IEEE SENSORS LET
PY 2022
AB currently , smart homes are designed and improved according to four main
   goals : residents wellness , security , comfort , and reduced energy waste .
   no focus has yet been reserved for one of the most impacting problems of
   recent years : domestic food waste . in this context , this letter proposes
   a case study that jointly involves recent advances in smart homes and the
   need for food waste reduction . the proposed system is divided into two main
   blocks : the sensing block and the actuation one . the sensing block
   consists of multiple nodes , which , in the proposed case study , work as
   dynamic labels being stuck to the good to be monitored . each node embeds ,
   on a miniaturized board , a set of sensors ( i . e . , temperature ,
   humidity , and ambient light ) , whose outcomes are used to extract , on
   board , the dynamic food shelf life ( sl ) . the presence of an onboard
   inertial measurement unit also permits the nodes localization inside the
   environment . if a sudden decrease in the food sl is recorded by the node
   and no human interventions occur in a preset timeout , the node is designed
   to send a call for intervention to the actuation block . in this letter ,
   the actuation block is realized through an assistive robotic platform that
   can gather coordinates of food from sensor nodes , navigate to them to
   manipulate the goods , and actuate actions to improve their preservation
   conditions ( increasing the perspective sl ) . the actuation block is also
   responsible for notifying the user of the bad storage conditions . the
   system has been experimentally tested in a laboratory environment . the
   whole mitigation chain successfully completed all the operations through the
   robotic platform in 60 % of cases . moreover , comparing food left in poor
   storage conditions and the same food managed by the our proposed system , an
   improvement of the food expiration date of 55 % ( on average ) has been
   recorded
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ) for food preservation; robotics; sensor
   applications; smart homes; wireless sensors network
ID food preservation; food products; food storage; intelligent buildings;
   sensor nodes; temperature sensors; ai for food preservation; case-studies;
   food waste; robot kinematics; robot sensing system; robotic platforms;
   sensing block; shelf life; smart homes; robots

---

UT 1239
AR Bedoya MG, 2022, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V128, P38, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2022.05.013
TI Promising perspectives on novel protein food sources combining artificial
   intelligence and 3D food printing for food industry
AU Bedoya MG; Montoya DR; Tabilo-Munizaga G; Pérez-Won M; Lemus-Mondaca R
TC 121
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB background : novel food matrices with high protein content and biological
   value , good amino acid profile , and functionality based on algae , insects
   , plants , fungi , and microbial proteins have been explored . 3d food
   printing ( 3d fp ) is one of the promising development techniques used in
   the food industry . this technology has evolved , and different food related
   innovations have been applied such as gastronomy , personalized nutrition ,
   new ingredients , and novel sensory characteristics . likewise , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) methods have also been used to predict food processing
   and preservation conditions and quality and physicochemical properties .
   scope and approach : this review studies the new technological trends based
   on ai and 3d fp applied to the food industry / markets focusing on the
   search for novel protein sources , and further development of food products
   with high protein content . this review aims to provide an overview of
   promising research developments in current and novel protein food industry
   applications combining ai and 3d fp technologies . key findings and
   conclusions : the review describes the different protein based alternatives
   to those of animal origin were explored that have functional properties and
   are a good source of essential amino acids . also , this review shows the ai
   and 3d fp technologies and how to combine them using diverse equipment and
   methodologies along with different protein food sources . 3d printing can be
   used in conjunction with ai for process optimization , formulation of pastes
   to be printed , post printing processes , and automation , among others .
   both technologies enable the development of personalized foods with high
   nutritional value and high potential application in the food industry
DE 3d printing; artificial intelligence; invents patented; personalized
   nutrition; protein sources
ID 3d printers; amino acids; food processing; nutrition; optimization;
   physicochemical properties; proteins; 3d printing; 3d printing; food
   industries; food sources; invent patented; novel protein food; personalized
   nutrition; printing technologies; protein contents; protein sources;
   artificial intelligence

---

UT 1240
AR Wendt S, 2024, ARTIF INTELL SUSTAIN INNOV BUS FINANC SERV, P133, DOI
   10.1007/9783031499791_7
TI Artificial Intelligence and the Food Value Chain
AU Wendt S; Sigurjonsson TO
TC 4
SO ARTIF INTELL SUSTAIN INNOV BUS FINANC SERV
PY 2024
AB this chapter examines opportunities for the application of artificial
   intelligence in the food value chain to enhance the sustainability of food
   production , aggregation , processing , and distribution . we focus on
   opportunities which lead to a more environmentally conscious and socially
   responsible food value chain . we contribute to the literature , in
   particular , by not only examining single stages of the value chain , but
   also the value chain as a whole . based on an analysis of the literature ,
   the chapter shows the potential benefits of applying artificial intelligence
   to resource optimization and the reduction of fertilizer and drug use .
   furthermore , this chapter highlights how the application of artificial
   intelligence can make food processing and distribution more efficient and
   reduce food waste and loss . the findings show that most of the outlined
   benefits relate to the constant monitoring and data analysis of crops ,
   livestock , and processed products , as well as transportation and storage
   conditions . however , some also include the analysis of weather data ,
   customer behavior , and other various data which may play an important role
   . springer nature switzerland 2024 .
DE artificial intelligence; food value chain; sustainability; waste

---

UT 1241
AR Hsieh Y, 2023, MECH MACH SCI, V138, P207, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-40070-4_16
TI Recognition of Leftover Food Based on Deep Learning
AU Hsieh Y; Dai X; Tanimoto H
TC 0
SO MECH MACH SCI
PY 2023
AB recently , food recognition technology is expected to be more widely used ,
   such as in real time telemedicine dietary monitoring and post checkout
   systems used in canteens . for these purposes , perception recognition of
   dietary intake becomes more fundamental and important than meal recognition
   itself . recent research has shown that computer vision technology can help
   automatically recognize diverse foods and estimate the amount of food intake
   . however , training models require a large amount of data in order to
   recognize various leftovers , and improving performance while reducing data
   collection and labeling costs is quite a big challenge . this paper proposes
   a deep learning based food and leftover quantity recognition system with
   designed system architecture , data augmentation approach and semi
   supervised learning approach , which achieves high performance even with a
   small amount of labeled data . the recognition performance of dish , food
   and leftover classes with our own evaluate data sets is higher than 0.97.
   the proposed system can be applied to canteen self checkout or calorie
   monitoring
DE data augmentation; deep learning; food recognition; leftover estimation;
   self-supervised learning
ID nutrition; real time systems; supervised learning; computer vision
   technology; data augmentation; deep learning; dietary intakes; food
   recognition; leftover estimation; performance; real- time; recent
   researches; self-supervised learning; deep learning

---

UT 1242
AR Ram PK, 2024, TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG, V200, DOI
   10.1016/j.techfore.2023.123093
TI Modeling social coupon redemption decisions of consumers in food industry: A
   machine learning perspective
AU Ram PK; Pandey N; Persis J
TC 7
SO TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG
PY 2024
AB social couponing is a growing promotional phenomenon in the service industry
   . however , since the conversion rate of distributed coupons into coupons
   redeemed for purchase is relatively low , there is a need to understand the
   redemption decisions of consumers . lower conversion rates lead businesses
   to lose both customers and profits . previous studies have typically focused
   on social couponing from a business perspective , without exploring factors
   from the customer s end . the current study explores the factors influencing
   customers decision to redeem coupons and highlights the interrelationships
   between the factors . data were collected from 353 online customers on their
   redemption experiences during their food purchases . structural equation
   modeling was performed to examine the significance of the factors and
   establish the predictability of customers redemption decisions . we then
   explored different machine learners to identify the best fitting models for
   customers redemption decisions . results showed that the prediction accuracy
   of the decision tree based models was the highest . these models delineate
   the role of influencers in various redemption aspects and validate the
   mediation effects of perceived risk , deal proneness , referral , and
   consumption frequency . the study also highlights future research areas in
   the social couponing domain
DE analytics; decision tree; machine learning; promotion; redemption; social
   coupon
ID machine learning; sales; current; analytic; business perspective; conversion
   rates; food industries; machine learning; promotion; redemption; service
   industries; social coupon; consumption behavior; decision analysis; food
   production; frequency analysis; future prospect; machine learning; decision
   trees

---

UT 1243
AR Hossain MB, 2024, INT SYMP SENS INSTRUM 5G IOT ERA ISSI, DOI
   10.1109/ISSI63632.2024.10720475
TI Enhancing Egocentric Insights: Comparison of Deep Learning Models for Food
   and Beverage Object Detection from Egocentric Images
AU Hossain MB; Sazonov E
TC 3
SO INT SYMP SENS INSTRUM 5G IOT ERA ISSI
PY 2024
AB the relationship between a balanced diet and human health is well
   established . the emergence of wearable egocentric vision , coupled with
   automatic nutrition estimation powered by deep learning and the internet of
   things ( iot ) , holds great potential for advancing dietary monitoring .
   this paper conducts a comprehensive comparison of state of the art deep
   learning models for food and beverage object detection from egocentric
   images . egocentric image data were collected from 84 participants in a free
   living environment using automatic ingestion monitor version 2 ( aim 2 ) .
   object detection models ( yolov5 , yolov8 , rt detr , dino , and co detr )
   were fine tuned on 48274 food and beverage images from randomly selected 74
   participants , validated on 568 images ( from 3 randomly selected
   participants ) and tested on 3958 images ( from rest of 7 participants ) .
   the results were evaluated by standard metrics ( pascal voc map@0.5 , coco
   map@0.5:0.95 or ap ) , and inference time . yolov5 achieved the highest
   map@0.50 of 0.82 and ap of 0.46 , while rt detr exhibited the fastest
   inference time ( 5.7 milliseconds ) . these results provide guidance in
   selecting the most suitable deep learning approach to enhance the accuracy
   and applicability of egocentric vision for automated dietary analysis
   through iot
DE dietary analysis; egocentric vision; food and beverage; wearable device
ID balanced diet; comprehensive comparisons; dietary analyze; egocentric
   vision; food and beverage; human health; learning models; objects detection;
   state of the art; wearable devices; contrastive learning

---

UT 1244
AR Sapakova S, 2024, CEUR WORK PROC, V3680
TI Using Machine Learning to Predict Food Prices in Kazakhstan
AU Sapakova S; Sapakov A; Madinesh N; Almisreb A; Dauletbek M
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2024
AB the relevance of using machine learning to predict consumer prices for food
   in kazakhstan is due to the need to effectively manage prices and ensure the
   availability of food products for the population . machine learning can
   analyze multiple factors , such as inflation , seasonal fluctuations , and
   changes in supply and demand , and create accurate forecasts , which is
   critical in times of economic uncertainty and food price volatility . in
   this work , we used a machine learning method to predict food prices in
   kazakhstan . the main focus was on the application of machine learning
   methods in this context . we used monthly rural , urban , and mixed price
   data from 2005 to 2020 to develop and test the models . the study examines
   the use of machine learning models such as decision tree , random forest and
   gradient boosting using a dataset obtained from the world food program price
   database . this helps accurately predict future food prices . we also
   assessed the accuracy of these models using various metrics such root mean
   square error ( rmse ) , root mean square error ( mse ) , as a mean absolute
   error ( mae ) and coefficient of determination ( r2 ) . in our work , we
   came to the conclusion that the random forest model performed best in all
   measurement metrics . experimental results confirm that the high accuracy
   produced by the random forest model has ( 0.99 ) in predicting future food
   price values
DE consumer price index; decision tree; forecasting; gradient boosting; machine
   learning; random forest
ID adaptive boosting; costs; errors; food products; forecasting; learning
   systems; machine learning; mean square error; uncertainty analysis; consumer
   price index; consumer prices; food prices; gradient boosting; kazakhstan;
   machine learning methods; machine learning; random forest modeling; random
   forests; root mean square errors; decision trees

---

UT 1245
AR Krupitzer C, 2024, FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V4, DOI 10.3389/frfst.2024.1473357
TI Generative artificial intelligence in the agri-food value chain - overview,
   potential, and research challenges
AU Krupitzer C
TC 21
SO FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB chatgpt uses a so called large language model ( llm ) to provide textual
   output of analyzed data . those llms are one example for generative
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) , which focuses on creating new content , e .
   g . , text , images , or music , based on learned patterns . recently ,
   applications in the food industry and agriculture started to apply
   generative ai . this mini review provides an overview about applications of
   generative ai in the agri food supply chain and discusses open research
   challenges , also in combination with digital twins
DE agri-food value chain; agriculture; food industry; generative ai; generative
   artificial intelligence; nutrition

---

UT 1246
AR Mansouri M, 2023, SN COMPUT SCI, V4, DOI 10.1007/s42979-023-01972-1
TI Deep Learning for Food Image Recognition and Nutrition Analysis Towards
   Chronic Diseases Monitoring: A Systematic Review
AU Mansouri M; Benabdellah Chaouni S; Jai Andaloussi S; Ouchetto O
TC 25
SO SN COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB the management of daily food intake aids to preserve a healthy body ,
   minimize the risk of many diseases , and monitor chronic diseases , such as
   diabetes and heart problems . to ensure a healthy food intake , artificial
   intelligence has been widely used for food image recognition and nutrition
   analysis . several approaches have been generated using a powerful type of
   machine learning : deep learning . in this paper , a systematic review is
   presented for the application of deep learning in food image recognition and
   nutrition analysis . a methodology of systematic research has been adopted
   resulting in three main fields : food image classification , food image
   segmentation and volume estimation of food items providing nutritional
   information . ' 57 ' original articles were selected and synthesized based
   on the use case of the approach , the employed model , the used data set ,
   the experiment process and finally the main results . in addition , articles
   of public and private food data sets are presented . it is noted that among
   the literature review , several deep learning based studies have shown great
   results and outperform the conventional methods . however , certain
   challenges and limitations are presented . hence , some research directions
   are proposed to apply in the future to improve the food recognition systems
   for dietary assessment
DE deep learning; dietary assessment; food image recognition; food monitoring;
   size estimation

---

UT 1247
AR Darwish A/1, 2024, EUR MICROW CONF EUMC, P573, DOI
   10.23919/EuMC61614.2024.10732555
TI Microwave-Assisted Detection of Physical Intrusions in Commercial Food
   Packaged Products via Machine Learning
AU Darwish A/1; Ricci M/1; Vasquez JAT; Migliaccio C; Vipiana F
TC 1
SO EUR MICROW CONF EUMC
PY 2024
AB this study introduces a novel approach using microwaves ( mw ) combined with
   a machine learning ( ml ) classifier to detect physical intrusions within
   food packaging . our objective is to validate our previous works [ 1 ] , [ 2
   ] , and [ 3 ] , by selecting real commercial water based and oil based food
   packaged products , specifically tomato and pesto sauce . the non invasive
   mw sensing system is designed for real time operation within a food
   production chain . experimenting with both the support vector machine ( svm
   ) and the multi layer perceptron neural network ( mlp ) algorithms for
   binary classification , after training on datasets generated from scattering
   parameters acquired during measurements , resulting in a remarkable
   precision of 100 % accuracy across 200 measurement samples for each food
   type . this outcome reflects the effectiveness of our previous findings .
   2024 european microwave association ( euma ) .
DE food safety; machine learning; microwave sensing; nondestructive techniques
ID food ingredients; intrusion detection; microwave sensors; support vector
   machines; commercial foods; commercial waters; food packaging; food safety;
   learning classifiers; machine learning; microwave sensing; microwave-
   assisted; nondestructive technique; packaged products; multilayer neural
   networks

---

UT 1248
AR Azman WNFSW, 2024, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2001 CCIS, P221, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-9589-9_17
TI E-Nose: Spoiled Food Detection Embedded Device Using Machine Learning for
   Food Safety Application
AU Azman WNFSW; Azir KNFK; Khairuddin AM
TC 3
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2024
AB this research aims to employ machine learning ( ml ) to classify the degree
   of contamination in leftover cooked foods based on their smell . this study
   evaluates the odor characteristics of typical leftover cooked lunch or
   dinner meals that are consumed locally in malaysia . an easy to use e nose
   application was attached to the food containers , consisting of four
   different types of sensors sensitive to various gasses , to collect the data
   . rstudio is used to analyze samples in order to identify the odor
   classification of leftover malaysian food . the accuracy ranged from 90 % to
   100 % when using the oversampling and undersampling techniques . the results
   of this re search showed satisfactory performances by support vector
   machines ( svm ) is superior compared to that of k nearest neighbors ( k nn
   ) in classifying the samples contamination degree . as a result , the
   findings showed that the electronic nose used in this study was a promising
   method for classifying the degree of contamination in leftover cooked foods
   and predicting whether food is still edible or not
DE classification; food waste; machine learning
ID electronic nose; food safety; learning systems; nearest neighbor search;
   cooked food; embedded device; food containers; food detection; food waste;
   food safety; machine learning; malaysia; odor classification; safety
   applications; support vector machines

---

UT 1249
AR Vanitha U, 2023, AIP CONF PROC, V2914, DOI 10.1063/5.0175814
TI A Novel Approach of Detection and Control of the Heavy Metals in Marine
   Foods Using Machine Learning
AU Vanitha U; Shruthi TKH; Hemalatha A; Jothilakshmi M
TC 1
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2023
AB the main purpose of our project is to detect heavy metals in marine foods .
   due to the presence of heavy metals and microbes in marine food , food
   contamination occurs which leads to illness of people . intake of food that
   contains harmful microbes , heavy metals such as lead , cadmium , etc . may
   cause several health problems for human beings . microbes like bacteria and
   viruses are the most common because of food borne diseases . symptoms of
   food poisoning include nausea , vomiting , stomach ache , fever , etc . so ,
   the detection of heavy metals in marine food may be a one stop solution to
   reduce consuming unhealthier food . an idea to analyze the heavy metals
   using a machine learning decision tree algorithm is approached . it will be
   classified based on the concentration of heavy metals and ph value . it will
   detect the edibility of the food using the provided data . this
   implementation helps to segregate unhealthy food from good ones . 2023
   american institute of physics inc .

---

UT 1250
AR Yang Y/8, 2024, FOOD RES INT, V198, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2024.115330
TI Enhanced food authenticity control using machine learning-assisted elemental
   analysis
AU Yang Y/8; Zhang L/7; Qu X; Zhang W/1; Shi J; Xu X
TC 8
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2024
AB with the increasing attention being paid to the authenticity of food ,
   efficient and accurate techniques that can solve relevant problems are
   crucial for improving public trust in food . this review explains two main
   aspects of food authenticity , namely food traceability and food quality
   control . more explicitly , they are the traceability of food origin and
   organic food , detection of food adulteration and heavy metals . it also
   points out the limitations of the commonly used morphology and organic
   compound detection methods , and highlights the advantages of combining the
   elements in food as detection indicators using machine learning technology
   to solve the problem of food authenticity . taking elements as detection
   objects has the significant advantages of stability , machine learning
   technology can combine large data samples , ensuring both the accuracy and
   efficiency . in addition , the most suitable algorithm can be found by
   comparing their accuracy
DE element; food authenticity; food quality control; machine learning;
   traceability
ID algorithms; food analysis; food contamination; food quality; food organic;
   machine learning; metals heavy; quality control; adversarial machine
   learning; food chemistry; heavy metal; authenticity control; element; food
   authenticity; food quality controls; food traceabilitys; machine learning
   technology; machine learning; organic foods; public trust; traceability;
   algorithm; food analysis; food contamination; food quality; machine
   learning; organic food; procedures; quality control; food ingredients

---

UT 1251
AR Farooqui M, 2023, MATH MODEL ENGPROBL, V10, P1017, DOI 10.18280/mmep.100336
TI Food Classification Using Deep Learning: Presenting a New Food Segmentation
   Dataset
AU Farooqui M; Rahman A-U; Alorefan R; Alqusser M; Alzaid L; Alnajim S;
   Althobaiti A; Ahmed MS
TC 12
SO MATH MODEL ENGPROBL
PY 2023
AB calorie estimation is of significant importance in promoting a healthy
   lifestyle , as it enables individuals to effectively manage their weight .
   applications that calculate caloric intake by analyzing food images have the
   potential to save users time and effort . consequently , the primary
   objective of this study is the development of a model capable of identifying
   food classes from images . this classification model is crucial for the
   first step of calorie estimation applications . while numerous food
   classification datasets are available online , there is a paucity of food
   segmentation datasets . in response to this challenge , a novel dataset for
   food segmentation is presented , designed to facilitate the estimation of
   food quantities a critical component of the second step in calorie
   estimation . the performance of the mobilenetv2 model was evaluated for food
   classification , yielding an optimal accuracy of 93.06 % and a loss of 0.31.
   these promising experimental results demonstrate the potential of the
   approach in real time environments . 2023 , mathematical modeling of
   engineering problems
DE deep learning; image classification; image processing; image segmentation
   dataset

---

UT 1252
AR Yudhistira B, 2024, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V23, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.13413
TI Achieving sustainability in heat drying processing: Leveraging artificial
   intelligence to maintain food quality and minimize carbon footprint
AU Yudhistira B; Adi P; Mulyani R; Chang C-K; Gavahian M; Hsieh C-W
TC 30
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2024
AB the food industry is a significant contributor to carbon emissions ,
   impacting carbon footprint ( cf ) , specifically during the heat drying
   process . conventional heat drying processes need high energy and diminish
   the nutritional value and sensory quality of food . therefore , this study
   aimed to investigate the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in
   food processing to enhance quality and reduce cf , with a focus on heat
   drying , a high energy consuming method , and offer a promising avenue for
   the industry to be consistent with sustainable development goals . our
   finding shows that ai can maintain food quality , including nutritional and
   sensory properties of dried products . it determines the optimal drying
   temperature for improving energy efficiency , yield , and life cycle cost .
   in addition , dataset training is one of the key challenges in ai
   applications for food drying . ai needs a vast and high quality dataset that
   directly impacts the performance and capabilities of ai models to optimize
   and automate food drying . 2024 institute of food technologists .
DE artificial intelligence; carbon footprint; energy efficiency; food drying
   process; sustainable development goals
ID artificial intelligence; carbon footprint; desiccation; food handling; food
   quality; hot temperature; carbon emissions; drying process; energy; food
   drying; food industries; food quality; food drying process; heat-drying;
   nutritional value; process needs; artificial intelligence; carbon footprint;
   desiccation; food handling; food quality; high temperature; procedures; low
   temperature drying

---

UT 1253
AR Soomro AM, 2024, MED IMAGING INFORMATICS MACH LEARN DEEP LEARN BIG DATA
   ANAL, P153
TI Detection of food allergy using deep learning
AU Soomro AM; Debnath SK; Bin Naeem A; Bagchi S; Sharma N/1; Saluja K; Gupta S
TC 1
SO MED IMAGING INFORMATICS MACH LEARN DEEP LEARN BIG DATA ANAL
PY 2024
AB consuming an excessive number of calories can lead to obesity . it is a
   manageable medical condition marked by an abnormal growth in body fat . it
   has a wide range of implications . the most prevalent conditions are high
   blood pressure , colon cancer , and prostate cancer , although diabetes ,
   high cholesterol , and heart attacks are all dietary related conditions .
   computer based methods are mostly employed to address such problems . in
   this study , we develop a system to recognize and detect food allergies
   using photographs of food . to conclude , after training , the model
   obtained an accuracy of 95 % to recognize the food label using modern
   computer methods , such as transfer learning ( resnet 50 ) . the study
   involved teaching a system to recognize various food types by analyzing
   labels from the food 101 dataset and extracting nutritional information .
   the primary objective of this research was to develop a framework capable of
   efficiently managing the complex process of identifying , locating , and
   categorizing food hypersensitivity ( allergies ) . furthermore , the study
   explored enhanced weight parameter optimization using datasets containing
   images of both healthy and allergenic foods , with a focus on comparing the
   performance of adam and rmsprop optimizers . the resnet 50 trained to get
   the highest mean average precision compared to the other transfer learning
   meta architectures . it achieved an accuracy of 95 % with best identifying
   results by utilizing an adam optimizer . the proposed method was determined
   to be novel since it will identify every food type before providing the food
   s nutrients from a different dataset . in real life , a transfer learning
   approach to food allergy identification could help to reduce the negative
   impact of diet management difficulties . the institution of engineering and
   technology 2024

---

UT 1254
AR Siddique Ibrahim SP, 2024, PROC INT CONF IOT BASED CONTROL NETWORKS INTELL
   SYST ICICNIS, P1164, DOI 10.1109/ICICNIS64247.2024.10823177
TI Automating Nutritional Claim Verification: The Role of OCR and Machine
   Learning in Enhancing Food Label Transparency
AU Siddique Ibrahim SP; Karthikeyan L; Bhoomika P; Tejaswi K; Khande LS;
   Vemishetti NS
TC 5
SO PROC INT CONF IOT BASED CONTROL NETWORKS INTELL SYST ICICNIS
PY 2024
AB consumer demand for health and trust in food products has widely gained
   attention , leading many researchers to call for rich information about food
   label nutritional content to be transparent and accurate . but nutritional
   claims such as organic or 'sugar free still have verification problems
   because misleading labels may counter the trustworthiness and safety of a
   consumer . in this paper , we propose a data driven approach to model
   verification of nutritional claims automatically through optical character
   recognition and classification algorithms . furthermore , easyocr , a deep
   learning ocr tool , is used to analyze the ingredient data from the food
   labels against the nutritional standards defined by the usda .
   classification accuracy : through suggested models in machine learning such
   as svm and decision trees , they classify the binary and multi category
   claims . the svm model achieved high strength with binary verification of
   claim accuracy and 90 % accuracy , while decision trees explained complex ,
   multi featured claims . the findings also revealed that this strategy will
   achieve providing consumers with improved accessibility to reliable
   nutritional information , thereby bolstering consumer trust in food labeling
   and smart eating . not only does this approach streamline the verification
   process , but it also represents a significant advancement in food safety
   and transparency , as well as an important initial step toward the
   automation of claim verification technologies
DE automated claim verification; consumer trust; decision trees; easyocr; food
   safety; ingredient analysis; machine learning; nutritional claims
   verification; optical character recognition ( ocr ); support vector machine
   ( svm ); transparency; usda standards
ID automated claim verification; consumer trust; easyocr; food safety;
   ingredient analyze; machine learning; nutritional claim verification;
   nutritional claims; optical character recognition; optical-; support vector
   machine; support vectors machine; usda standard; support vector machines

---

UT 1255
AR Çakmakçi Y, 2024, J TEKIRDAG AGRIC FAC, V21, P634, DOI
   10.33462/jotaf.1319077
TI Determination of Consumer Perceptions of Eco-Friendly Food Products Using
   Unsupervised Machine Learning; [Çevre Dostu Gıda Ürünlerine Yönelik Tüketici
   Algısının Denetimsiz Makine Öğrenmesi Kullanılarak Belirlenmesi]
AU Çakmakçi Y; Hurma H; Çakmakçi C
TC 4
SO J TEKIRDAG AGRIC FAC
PY 2024
AB this study aims to comparatively determine the consumer perception of food
   products marketed under ecologically friendly concepts ( organic food , good
   agriculture , and natural production ) and food sold directly by farmers ,
   conventional food , and farmer cooperative branded food . for this purpose ,
   a face to face survey was conducted with 171 identified consumers . r
   program was used to perform all of the analyzes . machine learning methods
   such as logistic regression ( lr ) , correspondence analysis ( ca ) , and
   principal component analysis ( pca ) are used for determining consumer
   perception from obtained data . descriptive statistics results showed that
   51.5 percent of those polled were male and 48.5 percent were female . it
   found that the mean age of the consumers was joined to the survey was 36.4.
   according to the lr findings , consumer socioeconomic characteristics have a
   considerable impact on the purchase of various foods ( such as organic
   labeled foods , good agricultural practices foods , producer cooperative
   branded foods , etc . ) . it has been discovered as the result of the pca ,
   people perceived organic branded food and good agricultural practices foods
   , which are healthier , more flavorful , and more trustworthy than other
   food . however , it has been discovered that they believe the costs of these
   types of food are expensive and that they are difficult to obtain . on the
   other hand , they perceive the pricing of farmer cooperative branded foods
   and food sold directly by the farmer to be lower . furthermore , it was
   observed in ca findings that there was a correlation between these various
   food groups and purchase locations . while products sold directly by farmers
   are mostly purchased from public markets , they prefer grocery stores and
   supermarkets when purchasing foods with good agricultural practices and
   natural labeled ( from the markets ) . when seen from this perspective , it
   is possible to conclude that ecologically friendly food and other food
   products are regarded differently by customers based on product
   characteristics . the use of marketing techniques that create a positive
   perspective in terms of affordability and accessibility and the development
   of policies and production techniques that boost consumers current
   perceptions of these items are considered will promote the consumption of
   these products . bu calsma tekirdag namk kemal youniversitesi tarafndan
   creative commons lisans .
DE consumer perceptions; eco-friendly foods; machine learning; product
   appreciation; purchasing decision

---

UT 1256
AR Oguntimilehin A, 2024, IEEE INT CONF EMERG SUSTAIN TECHNOL POWER ICT DEV SOC
   NIGERCON, DOI 10.1109/NIGERCON62786.2024.10927328
TI Convolutional Neural Network Based Food Calorie Estimation System for
   Dietary Tracking
AU Oguntimilehin A; Ayirioritse O; Atachin AJ; Toyin O; Tope-Oke AM; Abiola OB;
   Jaiyesimi BG; Sanya OA; Oluwatoki TG
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF EMERG SUSTAIN TECHNOL POWER ICT DEV SOC NIGERCON
PY 2024
AB this study provides a novel approach that enhances the efficiency and
   accuracy of dietary tracking through automated image recognition technology
   . this is aimed at promoting the consumption of a healthy diet . this is
   important due to the fact that if the correct calories are not taken , it
   could lead to overweight or obesity which causes certain cardiovascular
   diseases like hypertension , stroke , and coronary artery disease . a
   dataset named food 101 containing 101,000 food images was sourced from
   kaggle . com and was split into 70 % for training , 15 % for testing , and
   15 % for validation . the data went through normalization , resizing , and
   augmentation for preprocessing . feature extraction was then carried out
   using edge detection method . two trained convolutional neural network
   models resnet50 and google gemini pro vision were used in this work .
   resnet50 was used for food type recognition while google gemini pro vision
   was used to calculate the calories in the food ( images ) . the overall
   model was deployed as a web application using python programming language .
   when put to test , the system was able to validate 85 % accuracy ,
   ultimately providing a valuable tool for individuals to manage their dietary
   intake effectively
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; diet; smartphone; tracking
ID deep neural networks; nutrition; python; calorie estimations; convolutional
   neural network; deep learning; estimation systems; food image; google+;
   image recognition technology; network-based; smart phones; tracking;
   convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1257
AR Peveler WJ, 2024, ACS SENSORS, V9, P1656, DOI 10.1021/acssensors.4c00252
TI Food for Thought: Optical Sensor Arrays and Machine Learning for the Food
   and Beverage Industry
AU Peveler WJ
TC 38
SO ACS SENSORS
PY 2024
AB arrays of cross reactive sensors , combined with statistical or machine
   learning analysis of their multivariate outputs , have enabled the holistic
   analysis of complex samples in biomedicine , environmental science , and
   consumer products . comparisons are frequently made to the mammalian nose or
   tongue and this perspective examines the role of sensing arrays in analyzing
   food and beverages for quality , veracity , and safety . i focus on optical
   sensor arrays as low cost , easy to measure tools for use in the field , on
   the factory floor , or even by the consumer . novel materials and approaches
   are highlighted and challenges in the research field are discussed ,
   including sample processing / handling and access to significant sample sets
   to train and test arrays to tackle real issues in the industry . finally , i
   examine whether the comparison of sensing arrays to noses and tongues is
   helpful in an industry defined by human taste . 2024 the author . published
   by american chemical society
DE beverages; cross-reactive; electronic nose; food; machine learning; sensing
   array; smell; taste
ID beverages; food analysis; food industry; humans; machine learning; consumer
   products; e-learning; electronic nose; machine learning; mammals; optical
   sensors; american chemical society; cross-reactive; food and beverage
   industry; holistic analysis; machine learning; optical sensor arrays;
   sensing array; smell; statistical learning; taste; beverage; food analysis;
   food industry; human; machine learning; procedures; beverages

---

UT 1258
AR Dénes-Fazakas L, 2024, COMPUT BIOL MED, V182, DOI
   10.1016/j.compbiomed.2024.109167
TI Personalized food consumption detection with deep learning and Inertial
   Measurement Unit sensor
AU Dénes-Fazakas L; Simon B; Hartvég Á; Szilágyi L; Kovács L; Mosavi A; Eigner
   G
TC 4
SO COMPUT BIOL MED
PY 2024
AB for individuals diagnosed with diabetes mellitus , it is crucial to keep a
   record of the carbohydrates consumed during meals , as this should be done
   at least three times daily , amounting to an average of six meals .
   unfortunately , many individuals tend to overlook this essential task . for
   those who use an artificial pancreas , carbohydrate intake proves to be a
   critical factor , as it can activate the insulin pump in the artificial
   pancreas to deliver insulin to the body . to address this need , we have
   developed personalized deep learning model that can accurately detect
   carbohydrate intake with a high degree of accuracy . our study employed a
   publicly available dataset gathered by an inertial measurement unit ( imu )
   , which included accelerometer and gyroscope data . the data was sampled at
   a rate of 15 hz , necessitating preprocessing . for our tailored to the
   patient model , we utilized a recurrent network comprising long short term
   memory ( lstm ) layers . our findings revealed a median f1 score of 0.99 ,
   indicating a high level of accuracy . additionally , the confusion matrix
   displayed a difference of only 6 s , further validating the model s accuracy
   . therefore , we can confidently assert that our model architecture exhibits
   a high degree of accuracy . our model performed well above 90 % on the
   dataset , with most results between 98 % 99 % . the recurrent networks
   improved the problem solving capabilities significantly , though some
   outliers remained . the model s average prediction latency was 5.5 s ,
   suggesting that later meal predictions result in extended meal progress
   predictions . the dataset s limitation of mostly single day data points
   raises questions about multi day performance , which could be explored by
   collecting multi day data , including night periods . future enhancements
   might involve transformer networks and shorter time windows to improve model
   responsiveness and accuracy . therefore , we can confidently assert that our
   model exhibits a high degree of accuracy
DE deep learning; diabetes mellitus; gesture detection; personalized model;
   recurent neural network
ID accelerometry; deep learning; diabetes mellitus; humans; male; artificial
   pancreas; deep learning; diabetes mellitus; gesture detections; high degree
   of accuracy; inertial measurements units; neural networks; personalized
   model; recurent neural network; recurrent networks; article; confusion
   matrix; convolutional neural network; deep learning; food intake; gyroscope
   sensor; latent period; meal; nonhuman; problem solving; short-term memory;
   accelerometry; devices; diabetes mellitus; human; male; pathophysiology;
   procedures; long short-term memory

---

UT 1259
AR Rodrigues MB, 2023, PUBLIC HEAL NUTR, V26, P2717, DOI
   10.1017/S1368980023002446
TI Revolutionising food advertising monitoring: A machine learning-based method
   for automated classification of food videos
AU Rodrigues MB; Ferreira VP; Claro RM; Martins APB; Avila S; Horta PM
TC 11
SO PUBLIC HEAL NUTR
PY 2023
AB objective : food advertising is an important determinant of unhealthy eating
   . however , analyzing a large number of advertisements ( ads ) to
   distinguish between food and non food content is a challenging task . this
   study aims to develop a machine learning based method to automatically
   identify and classify food and non food ad videos . design : methodological
   study to develop an algorithm model that prioritizes both accuracy and
   efficiency in monitoring and classifying advertising videos . setting : from
   a collection of brazilian television ( tv ) ads data , we created a database
   and split it into three sub databases ( i . e . training , validation and
   test ) by extracting frames from ads . subsequently , the training database
   was classified using the efficientnet neural network . the best models and
   data balancing strategies were investigated using the validation database .
   finally , the test database was used to apply the best model and strategy ,
   and results were verified with field experts . participants : the study used
   2124 recorded brazilian tv programming hours from 2018 to 2020 . it included
   703 food ads and over 20 000 non food ads , following the protocol developed
   by the informas network for monitoring food marketing on tv . results : the
   results showed that the efficientnet neural network associated with the
   balanced batches strategy achieved an overall accuracy of 905 % on the test
   database , which represents a reduction of 999 % of the time spent on
   identifying and classifying ads . conclusions : the method studied
   represents a promising approach for differentiating food and non food
   related video within monitoring food marketing , which has significant
   practical implications for researchers , public health policymakers , and
   regulatory bodies . the author ( s ) , 2023 . published by cambridge
   university press on behalf of the nutrition society .
DE artificial intelligence; food advertising; machine learning; monitoring;
   ultra-processed foods
ID advertising; beverages; food; food industry; humans; machine learning;
   marketing; television; advertising; beverage; food; food industry; human;
   machine learning; marketing

---

UT 1260
AR Rangkuti AH, 2024, INT J INF VIS, V8, P2324, DOI 10.62527/joiv.8.4.2545
TI Identification of Indonesian Traditional Foods Using Machine Learning and
   Supported by Segmentation Methods
AU Rangkuti AH; Kerta JM; Mogot RY; Athala VH
TC 4
SO INT J INF VIS
PY 2024
AB traditional food is essential in preserving cultural heritage and is a vital
   part of indonesian cuisine . in this research , we implement a methodology
   to identify the traditional indonesian food using machine learning
   algorithms supported by various segmentation methods . this research aims to
   provide an efficient and accurate approach to classifying traditional foods
   , which can contribute to promoting and preserving indonesia s culinary
   heritage . to conduct this research , we conducted experiments on 34 types
   of conventional indonesian food originating from various provinces in
   indonesia . the analysis of food images involved several segmentation
   algorithms , including sobel , prewitt , robert , scharr , and canny filters
   . after the segmentation process , we proceeded with feature extraction and
   classification using traditional machine learning algorithms such as the
   random forest algorithm , decision tree , and derivatives of the svm
   algorithm . these algorithms aimed to recognize the 34 types of traditional
   food . after conducting several experiments , we found that random forest
   with robert s segmentation method was the highest performance algorithm . it
   produced extraordinarily accurate results on the test dataset , with an
   accuracy performance of 85.52 % , recall of 84.63 % , precision of 83.77 % ,
   and an f1 score of 82.49 % . additionally , the best performing algorithms
   with execution time averaged less than 1 minute . another experimental
   result showed that the random forest algorithm with the canny operator
   achieved an accuracy of 81.51 % , recall of 84.97 % , precision of 86.8 % ,
   and an f1 score of 85.61 % on the test dataset . furthermore , the random
   forest algorithm with the sobel operator achieved accuracy results of 78.4 %
   , recall of 65.3 % , precision of 62.3 % , and an f1 score of 63.71 % . in
   the svm algorithms derivative , the sigmoid svm combined with the scharr
   operator achieved the highest performance in its category across all
   classification metrics . in conclusion , this research offers valuable
   insights into classifying traditional indonesian dishes using traditional
   machine learning algorithms . simultaneously , this research aims to promote
   the appropriate and effective preservation and recognition of traditional
   indonesian food . 2024 , politeknik negeri padang
DE decision tree; machine learning; random forest; segmentation; svm;
   traditional food

---

UT 1261
AR Tacardon ER, 2023, FUTUR FOODS, V8, DOI 10.1016/j.fufo.2023.100261
TI Why are street foods consumed?  A machine learning ensemble approach to
   assess consumption intention of street foods
AU Tacardon ER; Ong AKS; Gumasing MJJ
TC 13
SO FUTUR FOODS
PY 2023
AB street food promotes a country s society , culture , and economy . most
   studies on street food have focused on food quality , eating habits , and
   eating motivation . however , despite the evident popularity of street foods
   among tourists , the intention to consume street foods has been
   underexplored . this study extended the theory of planned behavior by
   considering five additional factors to provide a more holistic measurement
   of the intention to consume street foods . analyzing these factors using
   machine learning ensemble techniques , specifically the random forest
   classifier and artificial neural network . the different algorithms were
   then subjected to their corresponding optimization processes to determine
   the classification model s best parameters and optimum output for assessing
   intention to consume street foods in the philippines , which yielded high
   accuracy rates of 93 % and 94.6 % , respectively . variables such as
   convenience , hedonic eating value , self efficacy , and attitude were found
   to be highly significant . the study collected 80,050 data points from 1,061
   valid responses , indicating that consumers decisions regarding the
   consumption of street food are influenced by individuals who hold
   significant importance in their lives . moreover , consumers exercise their
   agency in the consumption of street foods , utilizing their resources and
   patronage to contribute to the societal and economic benefits associated
   with such consumption within the country . given the freshness of most
   street food items being prepared on site , this instilled greater confidence
   in their choice . the findings of on the intention to consume street food in
   a cultural perspective can be leveraged by government officials to promote
   and advertise street foods , highlighting their connection to the country s
   culture , diversity , and society
DE artificial neural network; intention to consume; machine learning ensemble;
   random forest classifier; street foods

---

UT 1262
AR Yao R, 2024, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V24, P349, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2024.01.034
TI Applications of Machine Learning in the Food Industry; [机器学习在食品行业的应用]
AU Yao R; Sun Y/2; Zhao Y/6; Meng R
TC 8
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB the quality and safety of food is an important aspect of human health ,
   social stability and development . ensuring food quality and safety is a
   complex and multifaceted issue that must consider all stages of food
   processing , from cultivation and harvesting to storage , transportation ,
   and consumption . the application of machine learning to food processing can
   significantly improve the efficiency and ensure the quality and safety of
   food . this article systematically summarize machine learning and deep
   learning models , and elaborate on the application of machine learning in
   the field of food , such as image recognition , grading , quality inspection
   and food industry chain . it provides theoretical reference for the
   application of machine learning in food processing to expand the research
   ideas of food researchers . 2024 chinese institute of food science and
   technology
DE food classification; food industry; food testing; machine learning; neural
   network
ID food processing; food safety; food storage; grading; image recognition;
   learning systems; food classification; food industries; food testing; human
   health; machine learning; neural networks; quality and safeties; safety of
   food; social development; social stability; deep learning

---

UT 1263
AR Bailey RL, 2024, PNAS NEXUS, V3, DOI 10.1093/pnasnexus/pgae461
TI Artificial intelligence in food and nutrition evidence: The challenges and
   opportunities
AU Bailey RL; MacFarlane AJ; Field MS; Tagkopoulos I; Baranzini SE; Edwards KM;
   Rose CJ; Schork NJ; Singhal A; Wallace BC; Fisher KP; Markakis K; Stover PJ
TC 14
SO PNAS NEXUS
PY 2024
AB science informed decisions are best guided by the objective synthesis of the
   totality of evidence around a particular question and assessing its
   trustworthiness through systematic processes . however , there are major
   barriers and challenges that limit science informed food and nutrition
   policy , practice , and guidance . first , insufficient evidence , primarily
   due to acquisition cost of generating high quality data , and the complexity
   of the diet disease relationship . furthermore , the sheer number of
   systematic reviews needed across the entire agriculture and food value chain
   , and the cost and time required to conduct them , can delay the translation
   of science to policy . artificial intelligence offers the opportunity to ( i
   ) better understand the complex etiology of diet related chronic diseases ,
   ( ii ) bring more precision to our understanding of the variation among
   individuals in the diet chronic disease relationship , ( iii ) provide new
   types of computed data related to the efficacy and effectiveness of
   nutrition / food interventions in health promotion , and ( iv ) automate the
   generation of systematic reviews that support timely decisions . these
   advances include the acquisition and synthesis of heterogeneous and
   multimodal datasets . this perspective summarizes a meeting convened at the
   national academy of sciences , engineering , and medicine . the purpose of
   the meeting was to examine the current state and future potential of
   artificial intelligence in generating new types of computed data as well as
   automating the generation of systematic reviews to support evidence based
   food and nutrition policy , practice , and guidance
DE artificial intelligence; computed evidence; evidence synthesis; nutrition;
   systematic reviews

---

UT 1264
AR Jung G, 2023, ADV SCI, V10, DOI 10.1002/advs.202302506
TI Energy Efficient Artificial Olfactory System with Integrated Sensing and
   Computing Capabilities for Food Spoilage Detection
AU Jung G; Kim J/5; Hong S; Shin H; Jeong Y; Shin W; Kwon D; Choi WY; Lee J-H
TC 29
SO ADV SCI
PY 2023
AB artificial olfactory systems ( aoss ) that mimic biological olfactory
   systems are of great interest . however , most existing aoss suffer from
   high energy consumption levels and latency issues due to data conversion and
   transmission . in this work , an energy and area efficient aos based on near
   sensor computing is proposed . the aos efficiently integrates an array of
   sensing units ( merged field effect transistor ( fet ) -type gas sensors and
   amplifier circuits ) and an and type nonvolatile memory ( nevermind ) array
   . the signals of the sensing units are directly connected to the nevermind
   array and are computed in memory , and the meaningful linear combinations of
   signals are output as bit line currents . the aos is designed to detect food
   spoilage by employing thin zinc oxide films as gas sensing materials , and
   it exhibits low detection limits for h2s and nh3 gasses ( 0.01 ppm ) , which
   are high protein food spoilage markers . as a proof of concept , monitoring
   the entire spoilage process of chicken tenderloin is demonstrated . the
   system can continuously track freshness scores and food conditions
   throughout the spoilage process . the proposed aos platform is applicable to
   various applications due to its ability to change the sensing temperature
   and programmable nevermind cells . 2023 the authors . advanced science
   published by wiley vch gmbh .
DE artificial olfactory system; electronic nose; fet-type gas sensor array;
   food spoilage detection; near-sensor computing; nonvolatile memory ( nvm )
   array
ID conservation of energy resources; gasses; ammonia; data handling; energy
   efficiency; energy utilization; field effect transistors; gas detectors; ii-
   vi semiconductors; oxide films; spoilage; zinc oxide; artificial olfactory
   system; field effect transistor-type gas sensor array; field effect
   transistor; food spoilage; food spoilage detection; gas sensor arrays;
   memory array; near-sensor computing; nonvolatile memory; nonvolatile memory;
   nonvolatile memory array; sensor computing; transistor types; energy
   conservation; gas; electronic nose

---

UT 1265
AR Kaur R, 2023, REV ENDOCR METAB DISORD, V24, P633, DOI
   10.1007/s11154-023-09795-4
TI Deep neural network for food image classification and nutrient
   identification: A systematic review
AU Kaur R; Kumar R; Gupta M/1
TC 68
SO REV ENDOCR METAB DISORD
PY 2023
AB technology impacts human life in both the aspects such as positive and
   negative , which helps in better communication and eliminating geographical
   boundaries . however , social media and mobile devices may lead to severe
   health conditions such as sleep problems , depression , obesity , etc . a
   systematic review is conducted to analyze health issues by tracking food
   intake by considering positive aspects using preferred reporting items for
   systematic review and meta analysis ( prisma ) guidelines . the major
   scientific databases ( such as web of science , scopus , and ieee explore )
   are explored to search the image recognition and analysis articles . the
   search query is applied to the databases using keywords like ' food image ,
   ' ' food image classification , ' ' nutrient identification , ' ' nutrient
   estimation , ' and using ' machine learning , ' etc . 771 articles are
   extracted from these databases , and 56 are identified for final
   consideration after rigorous screening . a few investigations are extracted
   based on available food image datasets , hyperparameters tuning , a
   technique used , performance metrics , and challenges of food image
   classification ( fic ) . this study discusses different investigations with
   their proposed fic and nutrient estimation solution . finally , this
   intensive research presents a case study using fic and object detection
   techniques to estimate nutrition with food image analysis
DE cnn; dl; fic; fine tuning; nutrients; pre-trained models; tl
ID databases factual; humans; machine learning; neural networks computer;
   nutrients; nutritional status; classification; deep neural network; food;
   human; image analysis; nutrient; preferred reporting items for systematic
   reviews and meta-analyses; review; systematic review ( topic ); artificial
   neural network; factual database; machine learning; nutrient; nutritional
   status

---

UT 1266
AR Hwa LS, 2024, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V232, P1694, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2024.01.167
TI A Brief Review of Artificial Intelligence Robotic in Food Industry
AU Hwa LS; Chuan LT
TC 21
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligent robotic ( ai robotic ) is the formal term for an
   intelligent induced robot that can operate with vision ( eye ) to detect a
   product defect , or a control operating system to assist robot to
   differentiate good and reject product during production . a number of
   cutting edge manufacturing automation technologies have been developed ,
   including automatic inspection , autonomous robots , additive manufacturing
   , ubiquitous manufacturing , cloud manufacturing , and cyber physical
   systems . intelligent and automation technologies for worker assistance have
   been considered feasible . as knowledge driven industries develop in terms
   of artificial intelligence and robotic automation , and to upgrade the
   existing and next generation of workforce , higher and further education is
   needed to advance a better understanding of robotic automation in
   manufacturers who face endless challenges such as labor shortages , high
   turnover labor force , product innovation , quality matters , and many
   others . this paper provides a general view of food supply chain challenges
   when faced with labor issue , environmental disaster and production problems
   . ai robotic application would be a good source of problem solving in food
   manufacturing , food processing and food handling process
DE ai robotic; artificial intelligent; food industry; robotic
ID embedded systems; engineering education; food processing; food supply;
   industry 40; intelligent robots; artificial intelligent; artificial
   intelligent robotic; automation technology; cutting edges; food industries;
   intelligent robotics; manufacturing automation; product defects; robotic
   automation; supply chains

---

UT 1267
AR Huang X/1, 2024, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V45, P1, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20240131-284
TI Research Progress on Machine Learning and Computer Vision Technology in Food
   Quality Evaluation; [机器学习与计算机视觉技术在食品质量评价中的研究进展]
AU Huang X/1; Zhang K; Liu Y/4; Chen H; Huang F; Wei F
TC 12
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2024
AB in recent years , with rising concerns over food quality and safety ,
   computer vision technology has gradually attracted attention and begun to be
   widely used in the field of food quality evaluation . machine learning
   technologies such as artificial neural networks ( ann ) , convolutional
   neural networks ( cnn ) , and support vector machines ( svm ) allow
   automatic assessment and monitoring of food quality by training on large
   amounts of food images and related data . particularly , with the
   development of deep learning , the computer is now able to more accurately
   recognize food features such as appearance , shape , and color , thereby
   allowing food classification , prediction and quality monitoring . in
   addition to its conventional application in food quality assessment ,
   learning technologies also find application in more complex tasks such as
   defect detection , foreign object detection , and freshness assessment .
   these technologies not only improve the efficiency of food production and
   processing but also reduce errors caused by human factors , thereby ensuring
   food quality and safety . however , despite the significant progress in the
   application of learning technologies in food quality assessment , there are
   still challenges that need to be overcome . for instance , the high cost of
   acquiring and annotating food image datasets , as well as insufficient data
   quality and quantity , may affect the performance and generalization ability
   of models . furthermore , the interpretability and transparency of models
   are important issues , especially when explaining or making decisions on
   food quality assessment results . therefore , further research is needed to
   explore how to improve the quality and scale of datasets , optimize the
   robustness and interpretability of models , and develop more efficient and
   sustainable food quality assessment systems . 2024 chinese chamber of
   commerce
DE computer vision; food quality; food testing; machine learning
ID convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food safety; learning systems;
   object detection; support vector machines; computer vision technology; food
   image; food quality; food quality and safeties; food testing;
   interpretability; learning technology; machine learning; quality assessment;
   quality evaluation; computer vision

---

UT 1268
AR Oliveira Chaves L, 2023, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V63, P902, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2021.1956425
TI Applicability of machine learning techniques in food intake assessment: A
   systematic review
AU Oliveira Chaves L; Gomes Domingos AL; Louzada Fernandes D; Ribeiro Cerqueira
   F; Siqueira-Batista R; Bressan J
TC 53
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2023
AB the evaluation of food intake is important in scientific research and
   clinical practice to understand the relationship between diet and health
   conditions of an individual or a population . large volumes of data are
   generated daily in the health sector . in this sense , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) tools have been increasingly used , for example , the
   application of machine learning ( ml ) algorithms to extract useful
   information , find patterns , and predict diseases . this systematic review
   aimed to identify studies that used ml algorithms to assess food intake in
   different populations . a literature search was conducted using five
   electronic databases , and 36 studies met all criteria and were included .
   according to the results , there has been a growing interest in the use of
   ml algorithms in the area of nutrition in recent years . also , supervised
   learning algorithms were the most used , and the most widely used method of
   nutritional assessment was the food frequency questionnaire . we observed a
   trend in using the data analysis programs , such as r and weka . the use of
   ml in nutrition is recent and challenging . therefore , it is encouraged
   that more studies are carried out relating these themes for the development
   of food reeducation programs and public policies
DE artificial intelligence; computational tools; diet; food intake; machine
   learning; supervised and unsupervised algorithms
ID artificial intelligence; diet; eating; machine learning; nutritional status;
   clinical research; learning algorithms; machine learning; computational
   tools; food intake; food intake assessments; machine learning algorithms;
   machine learning techniques; machine learning; scientific researches;
   supervised algorithm; systematic review; unsupervised algorithms; artificial
   intelligence; diet; eating; machine learning; nutritional status; nutrition

---

UT 1269
AR Abimbola OF, 2023, SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF, P165, DOI
   10.1201/9781003207955-12
TI Artificial Intelligence in the Food Packaging Industry
AU Abimbola OF; Okpara MO
TC 3
SO SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF
PY 2023
AB the increasing growth in the human population and in consistent capacity
   development has led to the emergence of new food processing industries .
   this offers varieties of options to consumers when it comes to products .
   despite the emergence of these various industries , in terms of meeting the
   needs / demands of the consumers , food industries still lack the ability to
   meet these needs using the manual or conventional processing and packaging
   methods . this has led to increased use of automation in the various food
   industries to improve the output . application of artificial intelligence ,
   robotics , smart / intelligent packaging and self optimising clean in place
   ( socip ) , among others , has today increased the turnout of products ,
   improved packaging time , and boosted consumer confidence when it comes to
   health concerns regarding packaged foods

---

UT 1270
AR Arnav A, 2024, WORLD CONF COMMUN COMPUT WCONF, DOI
   10.1109/WCONF61366.2024.10692042
TI Sentiment Analysis on Amazon Food Reviews using Machine Learning
AU Arnav A; Pareek V; Jain T
TC 1
SO WORLD CONF COMMUN COMPUT WCONF
PY 2024
AB amazon food reviews refers to the feedback given by the users or customers
   who have purchased a certain food item from the amazon platform . there are
   more than 500,000 reviews which help us to analyze and improve the current
   sentiment of the customers using the amazon products they have purchased and
   used . here we have used 7 classifiers on the given dataset on amazon fine
   food reviews from kaggle . our experiment results showed that we have the
   highest accuracy when using logistic regression and sgd with 94.342 % with
   tfidf and bow respectively . other classifiers also come close to this
   accuracy using bow and tfidf in our research . we have also used bert and
   glove and lstm for further analysis . all this is done by dividing the
   dataset into positive and negative reviews . taking a scale of 5 to rate the
   given products we can identify if the customer likes their used products or
   not
DE bert; dt; feature extraction techniques; knn; lstm; machine learning; mnb;
   random forest; sgb; svm; xgb
ID bert; dt; feature extraction techniques; knn; lstm; machine learning; mnb;
   random forests; sgb; svm; xgb; sales

---

UT 1271
AR Khikmah KN, 2024, J ONLINE INF, V9, P128, DOI 10.15575/join.v9i1.1012
TI Performance Comparative Study of Machine Learning Classification Algorithms
   for Food Insecurity Experience by Households in West Java
AU Khikmah KN; Sartono B; Susetyo B; Dito GA
TC 3
SO J ONLINE INF
PY 2024
AB this study aims to compare the classification performance of the random
   forest , gradient boosting , rotation forest , and extremely randomized tree
   methods in classifying the food insecurity experience scale in west java .
   the dataset used in this research is based on the socio economic survey by
   statistics indonesia in 2020 . the novelty of this research is comparing the
   performance of the four methods used , which all are the tree ensemble
   approaches . in addition , due to the imbalance class problem , the authors
   also applied three imbalance handling techniques in this study . the results
   show that the combination of the random forest algorithm and the random
   under sampling technique is the best classifier . this approach has a
   balanced accuracy value of 65.795 % . the best classification method results
   show that the food insecurity experience scale in west java can be
   identified by considering the factors of floor area ( house size ) , the
   number of depositors , type of floor , health insurance ownership status ,
   and internet access capabilities . 2024 , department of informatics , uin
   sunan gunung djati bandung , indonesia
DE extremely randomized tree; food insecurity; gradient boosting; random
   forest; rotation forest

---

UT 1272
AR Mahgoub H, 2023, BIOMIMETICS, V8, DOI 10.3390/biomimetics8060493
TI Bio-Inspired Spotted Hyena Optimizer with Deep Convolutional Neural Network-
   Based Automated Food Image Classification
AU Mahgoub H; Aldehim G; Almalki NS; Issaoui I; Mahmud A; Alneil AA
TC 8
SO BIOMIMETICS
PY 2023
AB food image classification , an interesting subdomain of computer vision ( cv
   ) technology , focuses on the automatic classification of food items
   represented through images . this technology has gained immense attention in
   recent years thanks to its widespread applications spanning dietary
   monitoring and nutrition studies to restaurant recommendation systems . by
   leveraging the developments in deep learning ( dl ) techniques , especially
   the convolutional neural network ( cnn ) , food image classification has
   been developed as an effective process for interacting with and
   understanding the nuances of the culinary world . the deep cnn based
   automated food image classification method is a technology that utilizes dl
   approaches , particularly cnns , for the automatic categorization and
   classification of the images of distinct kinds of foods . the current
   research article develops a bio inspired spotted hyena optimizer with a deep
   convolutional neural network based automated food image classification (
   shodcnn fic ) approach . the main objective of the shodcnn fic method is to
   recognize and classify food images into distinct types . the presented
   shodcnn fic technique exploits the dl model with a hyperparameter tuning
   approach for the classification of food images . to accomplish this
   objective , the shodcnn fic method exploits the dcnn based xception model to
   derive the feature vectors . furthermore , the shodcnn fic technique uses
   the sho algorithm for optimal hyperparameter selection of the xception model
   . the shodcnn fic technique uses the extreme learning machine ( elm ) model
   for the detection and classification of food images . a detailed set of
   experiments was conducted to demonstrate the better food image
   classification performance of the proposed shodcnn fic technique . the wide
   range of simulation outcomes confirmed the superior performance of the
   shodcnn fic method over other dl models
DE computer vision; deep convolutional neural network; food image
   classification; machine learning; spotted hyena optimizer

---

UT 1273
AR Panaligan D, 2024, INT J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V59, P7754, DOI
   10.1111/ijfs.17216
TI Harnessing artificial intelligence in microbial food safety: global progress
   and implications in the ASEAN region
AU Panaligan D; Sy ICB; Sarza RM
TC 3
SO INT J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food safety remains one of the major concerns in asean , with many of the
   recent developmental plans and published policies in the region being
   focused on the topic . most recent who data indicate that over 90 % of the
   food safety burden in asean is due to microbial foodborne diseases . however
   , conventional systems for controlling fbds are resource intensive and
   require significant infrastructure which may not yet be present in asean .
   prior work on the use of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in food safety
   application has shown its potential to reduce costs and increase efficiency
   . however , there remains a paucity in such research specific for the asean
   region . in this review , the state of microbial food safety and the unique
   challenges in the asean region are presented . the global state of the art
   of microbial food safety applications of ai are presented and possible steps
   for its adaptation to the asean context are then discussed . 2024 institute
   of food science and technology ( ifst ) .
DE ai; asean; food safety; machine learning
ID food safety; asean; conventional systems; food safety; foodborne disease;
   global state; machine learning; reduce costs; safety applications; state of
   the art; machine learning

---

UT 1274
AR Singh B/1, 2024, SUSTAIN WASTE MANAG TOUR HOSP SECT, P445, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-6110-8.ch017
TI Revolutionizing Responsible Consumption and Production of Food In
   Hospitality Industry: Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approach Towards
   Zero Food Waste
AU Singh B/1; Kaunert C
TC 2
SO SUSTAIN WASTE MANAG TOUR HOSP SECT
PY 2024
AB the hospitality industry is pivotal in addressing responsible consumption
   and food production challenges . the hotel sector is leading the way in
   tackling important issues related to responsible food production and
   consumption to lead revolutionary solutions using deep learning and machine
   learning technology . integrating modern technical solutions becomes crucial
   in the current setting , where global poverty , malnutrition , and the
   complex dynamics of food adulteration considerably affect the industry s
   demand supply mechanism . keeping a close eye on the larger global scene ,
   this study promotes practical actions beyond simple technology
   implementations . in the face of global issues such as hunger , malnutrition
   and food adulteration , the assimilation of advanced technological
   strategies becomes imperative . this chapter explores the role of ml and dl
   in achieving zero waste within the hospitality sector , addressing
   challenges and presenting innovative strategies for adequate food loss waste
   management
ID chemical contamination; engineering education; food industry; food
   ingredients; food waste; learning systems; waste management; food
   adulterations; food consumption; food production; food waste; hospitality
   industry; hotel sectors; learning approach; machine learning; production and
   consumption; production challenges; deep learning

---

UT 1275
AR Sinha A/1, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1269 LNNS, P601, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-4319-6_43
TI Artificial Intelligence in Monitoring Food Spoilage with ELISA
AU Sinha A/1; Gehlot A; Yamsani N; Iqbal MI; Kumar S/1
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB mycotoxins from molds and fungus , which grow well in warm , humid
   environments , and chemical contamination are the main causes of foodborne
   sickness , which affects both the official and unofficial food sectors
   nationally . the sensitivity , convenience of use , and simplicity of the
   enzyme linked immunosorbent test ( elisa ) make it a useful instrument for
   ensuring the safety of food . its restricted sensitivity and accuracy ,
   however , have prevented its wider employment in food analysis ,
   necessitating the development of more potent remedies . over 10,000 elisa
   values from a dataset that included samples of both fresh and spoiled food
   were used to train the ai algorithm . the platform had a 98.5 % accuracy
   rate in distinguishing between fresh and rotting samples , which was far
   better than standard methods , which typically only achieve 85 % accuracy .
   in addition , the artificial intelligence ( ai ) powered approach reduced
   the detection time by 40 % , allowing for quicker reaction times and real
   time tracking . significant progress has been made thus far . combining ai
   with elisa can improve analysis speed and accuracy . additionally , in a
   case study involving dairy products . the ai elisa system showed its ability
   to prevent foodborne infections by identifying spoiling signs up to 24 h
   earlier than normal industry standard . nanomaterials based elisa , or nano
   elisa , has thankfully substantially enhanced elisa and demonstrated
   exceptional performance due to its high amount , cheap charge , and easy
   details . this paper talks about recent advancements in nano elisa and how
   they may be used for food analysis and how ai improving the elisa . these
   developments offer a fresh perspective and new strategies for other
   approaches
DE artificial intelligence; chemical pollutants; elisa; food contamination;
   nano-elisa
ID chemical contamination; food microbiology; food safety; chemical pollutants;
   elisa; food analysis; food contamination; food sector; food spoilage; humid
   environment; immunosorbents; monitoring foods; nano-elisa; spoilage

---

UT 1276
AR Tiwari M, 2022, NOV TECHNOL FOOD SCI, P511, DOI 10.1002/9781119776376.ch14
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Processing
AU Tiwari M; Pandey H; Mukherjee A; Sutar RF
TC 11
SO NOV TECHNOL FOOD SCI
PY 2022
AB the post harvest food processing requires wide range of novel emerging
   techniques for efficient production and handling of food . among these ,
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) is catching the attention of businesses
   across many disciplines and sectors directly and indirectly . ai driven food
   processing using mechanized inspection and learning methods for improving
   the food generation model . it is not only analyzes the data digitally , but
   also accurately replaces most of the human interventions . the complex
   assessment and management of food quality and quantity can be easily
   controlled and assured by using predictable models in ai . in global
   perspective , this chapter highlights the various scenarios and
   relationships of ai with dairy processing ( identify adulteration ,
   standardization and monitoring cleaning in place systems ) , cereal
   processing ( sorting and grading ) , meat and poultry product processing (
   behavior of carcass and egg quality ) , beverage processing ( simulation of
   pulping process , detection of polyphenol contents , permeate flux ,
   viscosity and discrimination of brands ) , fruits and vegetable processing (
   prediction of physical properties , internal defects , total soluble solids
   , ph and texture quality of processed fruits and vegetables ) , tea
   processing ( assessing quality using e nose ) , bakery and confectionary (
   surface color changes for chocolate ) . it elucidates requirements , demands
   and safety toward the food processing industries by means of ai . also ,
   this chapter explains challenges and recommendations in the setup of ai
   technologies in real time post harvest processing . finally , the chapter
   notifies the future possibilities of ai revolution in food processing
   industries as a key to provide quality food
DE artificial intelligence; food engineering; food processing; novel
   techniques; quality; robotics; software development

---

UT 1277
AR Garg V, 2023, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V1000, P79, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-13702-0_6
TI Utilization of Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry
AU Garg V; Puri N
TC 4
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2023
AB the introduction of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in the food industry
   streamlines the quality assessment of food products . the innovation has
   brought many advanced applications to make food fabrication more proficient
   , safe , and gainful . for example , advances in hereditary design are
   prompting the creation of harvests and food items . the items are more
   advantageous for the purchasers and more effectively cultivable for the
   makers . the five artificial intelligence application categories include
   sorting products and packages , food safety compliance , improved
   cleanliness , product development , and marketing . artificial intelligence
   has directly or indirectly impacted the food industry . the basic food item
   industry utilizes ai to offer clients focused on offers , oversee stock ,
   and decrease squander . artificial intelligence applications will impact the
   food handling organizations and help them build their income and lift client
   experience . furthermore , numerous food centered ai stages are accessible
   to shoppers . for instance , softwear like wellio utilizes ai and conduct
   science to give customized formula proposals and afterward allows clients to
   arrange their goods on the web . habit creates customized nourishment plans
   dependent on the consequences of a sustenance test . food processing is a
   convoluted business and it includes arranging the food or crude materials
   coming from the homestead , keeping up the hardware and a few kinds of gear
   , and then some . however , artificial intelligence will be a boon for this
   industry and will make the work more tranquil and smoother
DE applications and food product; artificial intelligence; purchaser

---

UT 1278
AR Olasina JR, 2024, ADV TRANSDISCIPL ENG, V61, P316, DOI 10.3233/ATDE240774
TI Development of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-Based Automatic Food
   Classification (AFC) Model for Visual Impairments of Nigerians
AU Olasina JR; Aliu OH
TC 0
SO ADV TRANSDISCIPL ENG
PY 2024
AB this study investigates the efficacy of a transfer learning approach
   utilizing lenet 5 and a cnn based afc model for the classification of
   nigerian swallow foods . leveraging the lightweight lenet 5 architecture ,
   originally designed for 32x32x3 image inputs , we adapted our dataset with
   100x100x3 images to meet its requirements . meanwhile , the cnn based afc
   model was constrained to accept 100x100x3 images and classify them into 20
   categories . training , validation , and testing were conducted on both
   models , yielding distinct results . the cnn based afc model demonstrated
   superior performance , achieving an accuracy of 0.9494 and a validation
   accuracy of 0.9524 , with corresponding losses of 0.4778 and 0.4735 ,
   respectively . conversely , lenet 5 achieved a training accuracy of 0.9418
   and a validation accuracy of 0.9524 , with losses of 0.0808 and 0.0421.
   notably , the cnn based afc model exhibited significantly faster training
   times , outperforming lenet 5 in this regard . this study lays the
   groundwork for further research , with plans to integrate the cnn based afc
   model into a mobile app to assist visually impaired individuals in
   identifying safe foods . the deployment of such a system has the potential
   to enhance the autonomy and quality of life for visually impaired
   individuals , reducing reliance on caregivers and mitigating health risks
   associated with improper food consumption . future work will focus on
   expanding the model to encompass a wider range of nigerian foods and
   finalizing its integration into the mobile app
DE cnn-based afc model; image classification; nigerian swallow foods; transfer
   learning lenet-5
ID classification models; convolutional neural network; convolutional neural
   network-based automatic food classification model; images classification;
   mobile app; network-based; nigerian swallow food; nigerians; transfer
   learning; transfer learning lenet-5; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1279
AR Barthwal R, 2024, INNOV FOOD SCI EMERG TECHNOL, V92, DOI
   10.1016/j.ifset.2024.103600
TI New trends in the development and application of artificial intelligence in
   food processing
AU Barthwal R; Kathuria D; Joshi S; Kaler RSS; Singh N
TC 74
SO INNOV FOOD SCI EMERG TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food plays a significant role in human existence . it is necessary to reduce
   food wastage , and enhance both food management and safety protocols . the
   growing prevalence and advanced nature of computational networks have
   empowered modern industrial and logistical frameworks . these networks
   continuously generate data from sensors , systems , intelligent devices ,
   machines , and human interactions that undergoes deep analysis . these
   advancements have spurred a transformation , giving rise to a technology
   called artificial intelligence ( ai ) . the current review aims to offer
   valuable insights into the latest ai technologies , providing assistance to
   agricultural farmers and food processing endeavors . the countless scenarios
   and use cases pertaining to ai , with the lenses of product development ,
   sorting and grading , enhancing quality and safety , supply chain management
   , and waste management , are explored herein . finally , discussion about
   the pivotal role of ai in fostering sustainable food production is also
   involved in this review
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; food supply chain; machine learning;
   product development
ID agriculture; deep learning; food processing; food safety; grading; processed
   foods; product development; supply chain management; waste management;
   computational networks; deep learning; development and applications; food
   management; food supply chain; food wastages; food safety; machine learning;
   management protocols; safety protocols; food supply

---

UT 1280
AR Hashim N, 2024, IOT AI AGRIC SMART AUTOM SYST INCREASING AGRIC PRODUCT
   ACHIEVE SDGS SOC 50, P155, DOI 10.1007/978-981-97-1263-2_10
TI Strategic Short Note: Artificial Intelligence in Food Quality Assessments
AU Hashim N
TC 1
SO IOT AI AGRIC SMART AUTOM SYST INCREASING AGRIC PRODUCT ACHIEVE SDGS SOC 50
PY 2024
AB this paper explores the role of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in
   revolutionizing food quality assessments . as food products become
   increasingly complex and diverse , traditional quality assessment methods
   encounter limitations in accuracy , efficiency , and scalability . ai
   technologies present promising solutions by harnessing advanced algorithms ,
   machine learning techniques , and data analytics to augment the accuracy and
   speed of food quality assessments . this chapter offers an overview of state
   of the art ai applications across various aspects of food quality assessment
   . furthermore , it addresses the challenges and opportunities inherent in
   integrating ai into the food industry . through a thorough exploration of
   key concepts and advancements , this chapter aims to provide valuable
   insights to researchers , industry professionals , and policymakers
   regarding the transformative potential of ai in ensuring food safety ,
   integrity , and consumer satisfaction

---

UT 1281
AR Neha K, 2023, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS, P411, DOI
   10.1109/ICAISS58487.2023.10250758
TI Food Prediction based on Recipe using Machine Learning Algorithms
AU Neha K; Sanjan P; Hariharan S; Namitha S; Jyoshna A; Prasad AB
TC 10
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2023
AB this study explores the implementation of machine learning methods to
   forecast meal results based on recipe data . the study intends to use the
   wealth of available recipe data to construct prediction algorithms for
   predicting flavor , popularity , and nutritional information . the
   researchers gather a wide range of recipe datasets and extract pertinent
   characteristics like component quantities and cooking methods . to create
   precise prediction models , they use a variety of machine learning methods ,
   including as regression , classification , and deep learning . personalized
   recipe recommendations , meal planning , and dietary analysis are a few of
   the study s practical applications that can help those who have certain
   dietary needs and those who are curious about trying new foods . the summary
   of the research s results and contributions in the abstract emphasizes the
   value of machine learning in providing individualized and data driven eating
   experiences . the first point made in the abstract is how commonplace recipe
   platforms are and how much recipe data is available . it emphasizes the
   possibility of using these data to create predictive models that can gage
   different food characteristics , such as flavor , appeal , and nutritional
   information . the authors explain how to gather a sizable collection of
   recipes from several sources and extract pertinent information , such as
   component amounts , cooking methods , and recipe types
DE flavor; food prediction; machine learning; nutritional information;
   personalized recommendations; recipe
ID abstracting; cooking; deep learning; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   nutrition; cooking methods; food prediction; machine learning algorithms;
   machine learning methods; machine learning; nutritional information;
   personalized recommendation; prediction algorithms; prediction-based;
   recipe; forecasting

---

UT 1282
AR Vanjari N, 2023, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT,
   V2023-June, P350
TI Machine Learning-based Food Waste Management System
AU Vanjari N; Bohra A; Nagda K; Lakhani V
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2023
AB our project aims to develop an engaging mobile application that serves as a
   ubiquitous platform for users to visualize available food resources in their
   local region and , as a result , acquire access to food , thereby addressing
   two key issues : hunger and food waste . we noticed the potential for mobile
   technology to help with food waste management and developed an android app
   that allows businesses to donate and share leftovers with people in need .
   by reducing hunger and food waste , our activity has a significant influence
   on both healthcare and the environment . apart from this , the application
   also provides analytics to the restaurants to reduce food wastage at their
   side using machine learning . ensemble models like xgboost and random forest
   are considered which will be beneficial in regularization for avoiding
   overfitting and also for inbuilt cross validation
DE food management; food saving application; food waste; waste management
ID forestry; machine learning; nutrition; food management; food resources; food
   saving application; food waste; key issues; local region; machine learning;
   mobile applications; mobile technology; waste management systems; waste
   management

---

UT 1283
AR Deng Z, 2024, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V144, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104344
TI Deep learning in food authenticity: Recent advances and future trends
AU Deng Z; Wang T/1; Zheng Y/2; Zhang W/6; Yun Y-H
TC 145
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB background : the development of fast , efficient , accurate , and reliable
   techniques and methods for food authenticity identification is crucial for
   food quality assurance . traditional machine learning algorithms often have
   limitations when handling complex sample data , exhibiting a suboptimal
   performance , particularly when addressing intricate problems and in large
   scale data applications . in recent years , the emergence of deep learning
   algorithms has heralded revolutionary breakthroughs in the field of food
   authenticity identification , and the ongoing deep learning developments
   will continue to propel advancements in this field . scope and approach :
   this review presents an overview of the deep learning algorithms and various
   categories of deep neural network models and structures , including the
   multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) , convolutional neural network ( cnn ) ,
   recurrent neural network ( rnn ) , autoencoder ( ae ) , generative
   adversarial network ( gan ) , and attention mechanism ( am ) . it also
   summarizes the applications of these models , as well as the use of
   integrated models together with various analytical techniques in food
   authenticity . in addition , the latest developments and trends in deep
   learning in this field are discussed . key findings and conclusions : the
   formidable capabilities of deep learning algorithms , in synergy with a
   broad array of analytical techniques , enhance the precision and efficiency
   of the analysis of the diverse food components . concurrently , they have
   distinct advantages over traditional machine learning algorithms , showing
   significant potential for food authenticity identification . although the
   use of deep learning still faces some challenges , with continuous
   technological advancements , more deep learning applications are expected to
   emerge in the food industry in the future to safeguard food authenticity
DE adulteration; application; deep learning; food authenticity; geographical
   traceability
ID authentication; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks;
   generative adversarial networks; large datasets; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; quality assurance; recurrent neural networks;
   adulteration; authenticity identifications; complex samples; deep learning;
   food authenticity; food quality; future trends; geographical traceability;
   machine learning algorithms; sample data; multilayer neural networks

---

UT 1284
AR Mengstu M, 2024, BIO WEB CONF, V85, DOI 10.1051/bioconf/20248501022
TI Spectroscopy and machine learning in food processing survey
AU Mengstu M; Taner A; Duran H
TC 1
SO BIO WEB CONF
PY 2024
AB for food safety , quality control from the foodstuff production to the
   tasting of foods is needed and should be simple and non destructive . recent
   and notable non destructive measurements of food and agricultural products
   are based on optical and spectroscopic techniques . spectroscopy , meets the
   requirements of industrial applications for continuous quality control and
   process monitoring . hence , this article covers a survey of recent research
   works , highlighting the application of spectroscopy and machine learning in
   food processing from bibliographic database . the survey was based on
   relevant articles , obtained from scientific database and evaluated selected
   research works based on survey inquires , the assessment included food
   processing problem addressed ( varieties classification , origin
   identification , adulteration and quality control ) , types of spectroscopy
   used , machine learning models applied to solve the particular problem and
   keyword analysis to show the perspective of the research . the authors ,
   published by edp sciences .

---

UT 1285
AR Joseph RA, 2024, IEEE PUNE SECT INT CONF PUNECON, DOI
   10.1109/PuneCon63413.2024.10895465
TI Simplifying Customer Interaction with an Integrated Chatbot Solutions for
   Restaurants
AU Joseph RA; Gayathri R; Sri RK; Dharshini SMP
TC 2
SO IEEE PUNE SECT INT CONF PUNECON
PY 2024
AB the main innovation behind this paper is a new chatbot solution for health
   and diet promotion in restaurants . developed with advanced natural language
   processing ( nlp ) and ai technologies , the chatbot simplifies
   communication between diners and restaurant services resulting in major
   improvements for customer satisfaction . although restaurants chatbots still
   need more improvement in terms of broader scope toward people with a bit
   health consciousness diet , current studies reveal the ability to leverage
   this tool for better operational andcustomer experience . all in all , this
   chatbot is distinguished by recommending menus that are personalized to the
   dietary preferences and restrictions of its customers so as to ensure they
   are given options when it comes down to their health where a meal plan can
   be applied . in addition , the chatbot supplies detailed nutritional data
   over every menu item to make it easier for customers when making healthier
   choices . packed with these essential features , the chatbot enhances the
   overall dining experience for users and boosts health awareness in
   restaurants . this focused service is an example of howai can create a
   healthier food space for diners
DE ai in healthcare; chatbot integration; cnn and rnn models; dietary
   recommendation system; health data analysis; machine learning in food
   recommendations; nutritional information; personalized nutrition; real time
   health monitoring; user preference tracking
ID customer satisfaction; electronic health record; natural language processing
   systems; recommender systems; ai in healthcare; chatbot integration;
   chatbots; cnn and rnn model; dietary recommendation system; health data;
   health data analyze; machine learning in food recommendation; machine
   learning; nutritional information; personalized nutrition; real time health
   monitoring; user preference tracking; user preferences; sales

---

UT 1286
AR Rojas C, 2022, FOOD CHEM MOL SCI, V4, DOI 10.1016/j.fochms.2022.100090
TI ChemTastesDB: A curated database of molecular tastants
AU Rojas C; Ballabio D; Pacheco Sarmiento K; Pacheco Jaramillo E; Mendoza M;
   García F
TC 37
SO FOOD CHEM MOL SCI
PY 2022
AB the purpose of this work is the creation of a chemical database named
   chemtastesdb that includes both organic and inorganic tastants . the
   creation , curation pipeline and the main features of the database are
   described in detail . the database includes 2944 verified and curated
   compounds divided into nine classes , which comprise the five basic tastes (
   sweet , bitter , umami sour and salty ) along with four additional
   categories : tasteless , non sweet , multitaste and miscellaneous .
   chemtastesdb provides the following information for each tastant : name ,
   pubchem cid , cas registry number , canonical smiles , class taste and
   references to the scientific sources from which data were retrieved . the
   molecular structure in the hyperchem ( . hin ) format of each chemical is
   also made available . in addition , molecular fingerprints were used for
   characterizing and analyzing the chemical space of tastants by means of
   unsupervised machine learning . chemtastesdb constitutes a useful tool to
   the scientific community to expand the information of taste molecules and to
   assist in silico studies for the taste prediction of unevaluated and as yet
   unsynthetized compounds , as well as the analysis of the relationships
   between molecular structure and taste . the database is freely accessible at
   2022 the author ( s )
DE chemical space; chemtastesdb; database; food informatics; tastes

---

UT 1287
AR Pan F, 2024, FOOD SCI ANIM PROD, V2, DOI 10.26599/FSAP.2024.9240053
TI Mining anti-hypertensive peptides in animal food through deep learning: a
   case study of gastrointestinal digestive products of royal jelly
AU Pan F; Liu D/2; Tuersuntuoheti T; Xing H; Zhu Z; Fang Y; Zhao L; Zhao L/1;
   Li X/11; Le Y; Hu Q; Peng W; Tian W
TC 12
SO FOOD SCI ANIM PROD
PY 2024
AB to shorten the complex and time consuming process of the identification
   method of the traditional food angiotensin i converting enzyme ( ace i )
   inhibitory peptides , we propose ahtpeptidefusion based on a segmented
   fusion with the protein language model and deep learning . the statistical
   analysis found that hydrophobic amino acids , n terminal valine is a
   dominant amino acid in the activity of ace i inhibitory peptides . in 12
   machine learning ( ml ) algorithms , the transformer outperformed the other
   11 models , with the best performance in predicting short and medium
   peptides . in the external dataset , ahtpeptidefusion fused by transformer
   and random forest ( rf ) showed excellent performance ( accuracy > 0.9 ) in
   predicting ace i inhibitory peptides with lengths ranging from 2 to 15 amino
   acid residues and different activity distributions , and the reliability and
   accuracy of ahtpeptidefusion was demonstrated by synthetic peptide and ace i
   inhibition experiments . in addition , hydrogen bonding and electrostatic
   interaction between 4 synthetic peptides and active residues of ace i were
   found by molecular docking . to further explore the ace i inhibitory
   peptides from animal derived foods , we established an automated pipeline
   consisting of the trinity of proteomics , virtual enzymatic digestion and
   ahtpeptidefusion , and tapped the ace i inhibitory peptide released from
   royal jelly after digestion in the gastrointestinal tract . in conclusion ,
   this computational pipeline will become a powerful screening tool for active
   peptides from animal derived foods , which can help food scientists
   accelerate the mining and design of active peptides from animal derived
   foods . overall , ahtpeptidefusion will be a powerful ace i inhibitor
   peptide prediction tool , it can help food scientists accelerate the mining
   and design of ace i inhibitory peptides . beijing academy of food sciences
   2024 .
DE angiotensin-i-converting enzyme inhibitory activity; animal-derived foods;
   deep learning; peptide; virtual enzymatic digestion

---

UT 1288
AR He Q, 2024, FOOD BIOSCI, V62, DOI 10.1016/j.fbio.2024.105558
TI Detection technologies, and machine learning in food: Recent advances and
   future trends
AU He Q; Huang H/3; Wang Y/18
TC 28
SO FOOD BIOSCI
PY 2024
AB the combination of food detection technology and machine learning can
   effectively enhance the efficiency and accuracy of food quality detection .
   promoting the healthy development of the food industry is one of the keys to
   ensuring its sound progress and holds crucial significance for its
   advancement . the paper begins by introducing various food detection
   technologies , including spectroscopy , chromatography , mass spectrometry ,
   odor sensors , and biosensors . it then delves into data preprocessing ,
   feature extraction , and model algorithms within the realm of machine
   learning . subsequently , we examine the progress made in applying machine
   learning assisted detection technologies in the food sector . the synergy
   between food inspection technology and machine learning not only facilitates
   automated and intelligent inspection processes but also adeptly manages and
   analyzes vast amounts of data generated from diverse inspection instruments
   . leveraging the robust modeling capabilities inherent to machine learning
   particularly when addressing complex high dimensional datasets the food
   industry can more precisely identify potential quality concerns and safety
   risks . looking ahead , emphasis should be placed on developing portable
   detection devices while enhancing deep learning interpretability and
   promoting model fusion establishment . concurrently , ethical considerations
   and data privacy issues must be addressed as we strive to integrate food
   inspection technology with machine learning effectively . in conclusion ,
   the integration of food inspection technology with machine learning is
   anticipated to significantly enhance technological innovation within the
   industry and bolster the capacity for monitoring food quality and safety
DE data analysis; detection technology; food; intelligent technology

---

UT 1289
AR Martini G, 2022, NAT FOOD, V3, P716, DOI 10.1038/s43016-022-00587-8
TI Machine learning can guide food security efforts when primary data are not
   available
AU Martini G; Bracci A; Riches L; Jaiswal S; Corea M; Rivers J; Husain A;
   Omodei E
TC 87
SO NAT FOOD
PY 2022
AB estimating how many people are food insecure and where they are is of
   fundamental importance for governments and humanitarian organizations to
   make informed and timely decisions on relevant policies and programs . in
   this study , we propose a machine learning approach to predict the
   prevalence of people with insufficient food consumption and of people using
   crisis or above crisis food based coping when primary data are not available
   . making use of a unique global dataset , the proposed models can explain up
   to 81 % of the variation in insufficient food consumption and up to 73 % of
   the variation in crisis or above food based coping levels . we also show
   that the proposed models can nowcast the food security situation in near
   real time and propose a method to identify which variables are driving the
   changes observed in predicted trends which is key to make predictions
   serviceable to decision makers
ID rain; article; coping behavior; coping behavior assesment; coronavirus
   disease 2019; decision making; dietary intake; dynamics; food; food
   consumption score; food crisis; food insecurity; food intake; food security;
   health care policy; health program; human; humanitarian intervention;
   learning algorithm; machine learning; pandemic; poverty; prediction;
   prevalence; reduced coping strategy index; scoring system; southeast asian;
   stochastic model; sub-saharan african; trend study; vegetation; adult;
   article; controlled study; diagnosis; food intake; government; male;
   prevalence

---

UT 1290
AR Goyal R, 2024, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V146, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104377
TI Spectroscopic food adulteration detection using machine learning: Current
   challenges and future prospects
AU Goyal R; Singha P; Singh SK
TC 140
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB background : food adulteration has emerged as a significant challenge in the
   food industry , impacting consumer health and trust in the market .
   utilizing machine learning especially deep learning with spectroscopic
   methods has revolutionized food adulteration detection enabling the
   development of more sophisticated and automated solutions . scope and
   approach : this review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the
   challenges and opportunities in machine learning based spectroscopic
   techniques for detecting food adulteration by exploring various
   spectroscopic techniques commonly employed in the food industry , such as
   infrared spectroscopy , raman spectroscopy , nmr spectroscopy , fluorescence
   spectroscopy , multi spectral imaging , and hyperspectral imaging . the
   article addresses data pre processing , feature engineering , model
   complexity , interpretability and their performance , and the need for large
   scale diverse datasets . key findings and conclusions : to develop a
   commercial spectroscopic adulteration detection system that uses machine
   learning , one needs to optimize not only the model , but also the dataset
   size , the combination of pre processing methods , the feature selection and
   extraction methods , the model selection , the hyperparameters by validation
   and the performance criteria . in addition , new machine learning algorithms
   are growing rapidly but creating a specialized model for adulteration
   detection using spectroscopy is still an area of research
DE deep learning; feature engineering; food adulteration; machine learning;
   preprocessing; spectroscopy
ID data handling; deep learning; feature extraction; fluorescence spectroscopy;
   hyperspectral imaging; infrared spectroscopy; large datasets; learning
   algorithms; spectroscopic analysis; current; consumer healths; deep
   learning; feature engineerings; food adulterations; food industries; future
   prospects; machine learning; preprocessing; spectroscopic technique; nuclear
   magnetic resonance spectroscopy

---

UT 1291
AR Lim CY, 2024, NANOTECHNOL PERCEPT, V20, P107, DOI 10.62441/nano-ntp.v20iS2.9
TI Food Delivery Applications with Data Mining Methods: Evaluating End-Users’
   Experience
AU Lim CY; Ang SL; Chan ZF; Li S/5
TC 2
SO NANOTECHNOL PERCEPT
PY 2024
AB online food delivery applications ( ofd apps ) have existed in malaysia for
   more than a decade . it has received a wide range of customer acceptance
   among the young and adults in malaysia . however , the paradigm of customer
   satisfaction in the ofd apps has shifted since the covid 19 pandemic struck
   the world . there were several recent research conducted to identify the
   factors that affected malaysian tertiary students satisfaction toward ofd
   apps . however , past research did not study the aspect of ofd apps content
   and user interface ( ui ) design from a mobile application s usability study
   perspective . moreover , past research also did not classify or cluster the
   customers to understand them from a deeper perspective . this research
   attempted to explore the factors affecting malaysia tertiary students
   satisfaction with ofd apps with two data mining methods namely the multiple
   regression analysis ( mra ) and k means clustering analysis , by using
   questionnaire data collected from 156 malaysia tertiary students . the
   output of the analysis will help the ofd service providers to understand
   their customers better and be able to plan the right resources to manage the
   app s quality and services . 2024 , collegium basilea
DE k-means; multiple regression analysis; online food delivery ( ofd );
   usability study

---

UT 1292
AR Abimbola OF, 2023, SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF, P117, DOI
   10.1201/9781003207955-8
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Fraud and Traceability
AU Abimbola OF; Okpara MO; Njikam MJ; Elejo AC
TC 0
SO SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF
PY 2023
AB the healthy growth of humans and animals depends on consuming good foods .
   the adulterations tampering with food labels and / or repackaging of food
   which is largely committed by producers with the primary aim of maximizing
   profits , are of great concern globally today . the health risks of
   consuming such food ranges from mild infections to death . today ,
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) in packaged foods is rising to the challenge
   . the use of ai based food packaging like radio frequency identification (
   rfid ) , barcoding , and quick response ( qr ) codes , is ensuring that
   packaged foods are secured but also , that these foods can be traced between
   the manufacturing line and the end user . ai data technologies have been a
   twentieth century innovation that increases consumers confidence in the
   packaged foods

---

UT 1293
AR Li Q/4, 2024, MATH BIOSCI ENG, V21, P3652, DOI 10.3934/mbe.2024161
TI A snail species identification method based on deep learning in food safety
AU Li Q/4; Qiu L
TC 3
SO MATH BIOSCI ENG
PY 2024
AB in daily life , snail classification is an important mean to ensure food
   safety and prevent the occurrence of situations that toxic snails are
   mistakenly consumed . however , the current methods for snail classification
   are mostly based on manual labor , which is inefficient . therefore , a
   snail detection and classification method based on improved yolov7 was
   proposed in this paper . first , in order to reduce the flops of the model ,
   the backbone of the original model was improved . specifically , the
   original 33 regular convolution was replaced with 33 partial convolution ,
   and the conv2d_bn_silu module in the partial convolution was replaced with
   the conv2d_bn_frelu module . frelu could enhance the model s
   representational capacity without increasing the number of parameters . then
   , based on the specific features of snail images , in order to solve the
   problems of small and dense targets of diverse shapes , a receptive field
   enhancement module was added to the head to learn the different receptive
   fields of the feature maps and enhance the feature pyramid representation .
   in addition , the ciou was replaced with the wiou to make the model pay more
   attention to targets at the edge or difficult to regress accurate bounding
   boxes . finally , the images of nine common types of snails were collected ,
   including the pomacea canaliculata , the viviparidae , the nassariidae , and
   so on . these images were then labeled using labelimg software to create a
   snail image dataset . experiments were conducted based on the dataset , and
   the results showed that the proposed method demonstrated the best
   performance compared to other state of the art methods
DE food safety; frelu; pconv; rfem; snail species identification; wiou; yolov7
ID deep learning; food; food safety; software; deep learning; food safety;
   image enhancement; molluscs; food safety; frelu; identification method;
   pconv; receptive fields; rfem; snail species identification; species
   identification; wiou; yolov7; deep learning; food; food safety; software;
   convolution

---

UT 1294
AR Munoz B, 2022, IEEE LAT TRANS, V20, P2131, DOI 10.1109/TLA.2022.9878168
TI Can deep learning models recognize chilean diet
AU Munoz B; Chirino I; Aguilar E
TC 3
SO IEEE LAT TRANS
PY 2022
AB the emergence of deep learning models has made it possible to address
   several real life problems and , in particular , those in which computer
   vision plays a key role . in this sense , the food recognition task from
   images is one of the beneficiaries of this machine learning method . its
   importance lies in its usefulness to become aware of the food eaten and in
   this way help us to lead a healthy lifestyle . in recent years , food image
   recognition has gained great prominence in the literature , providing novel
   models and datasets to address it . however , public data generally
   correspond to american , asian , and european foods , therefore the methods
   developed can not be directly applied to the chilean diet . in this article
   we will publish a new dataset to recognize the foods present in the chilean
   diet . in addition , we will perform a comparison with public popular food
   datasets to analyze the similarity in the dishes of the proposed dataset
   with respect to the exciting ones in the literature . moreover , we will
   establish a baseline using the state of the arts convolutional neural
   network architectures and the novel swin transformer approach
DE chilean diet; deep learning; food dataset; food recognition
ID deep learning; image recognition; neural networks; chilean diet; deep
   learning; food dataset; food image; food recognition; healthy lifestyles;
   learning models; machine learning methods; public data; real-life problems;
   network architecture

---

UT 1295
AR Chakka GSVC, 2024, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V1177, P391, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-8460-8_18
TI From Bytes to Bites: Revolutionizing Culinary Creativity Through Deep
   Learning and AI-Generated Recipes
AU Chakka GSVC; Aridoss M; Jayapal S
TC 1
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2024
AB in the field of computer vision , pre trained object detection models are
   highly adept at recognizing specific classes of objects within an image .
   this chapter presents a novel application that harnesses the power of a
   state of the art object detection model , yolov8 , to create a new model
   that can accurately detect and identify a wide variety of 26 vegetables .
   during the development of the model , we employed the well established
   squared bounding box mechanism to precisely locate each vegetable within the
   image . additionally , we significantly improved the application s
   functionality by integrating a large language model ( llm ) at the final
   stage . this integration enables users to generate personalized culinary
   instructions based on the detected vegetables in their preferred language ,
   complete with audio narration and the ability to select the desired number
   of recipes . the newly developed model has demonstrated remarkable accuracy
   , attesting to its efficacy in vegetable identification tasks
DE culinary language model; deep learning; image recognition; natural language
   processing; yolov8

---

UT 1296
AR Long F, 2023, BIORESOUR TECHNOL, V370, DOI 10.1016/j.biortech.2022.128533
TI Prediction and optimization of medium-chain carboxylic acids production from
   food waste using machine learning models
AU Long F; Fan J; Liu H/2
TC 20
SO BIORESOUR TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB machine learning models were developed in this study to predict and optimize
   the medium chain carbolic acids ( mccas ) production from food waste . all
   three selected prediction algorithms achieved decent performance ( accuracy
   > 0.85 , r2 > 0.707 ) . three optimization algorithms were applied for mcca
   production optimization based on the prediction algorithms . the maximum
   mcca production rate ( 0.68 g chemical oxygen demand per liter per day ) was
   achieved by simulated annealing coupled with random forest under the optimal
   conditions of ph 8.3 , temperature 50 c , retention time 4 days , loading
   rate 15.8 g volatile solid per liter per day , and inoculum to food waste
   ratio 70:30 with semi continuous mode . further experiments validated ( 18 %
   error ) that the mcca production rate was 113 % higher than the highest
   production rate of current lab experiments and 60 % higher than the
   statistical optimization using response surface methodology . this study
   demonstrates the potential of using machine learning for mcca production
   prediction and optimization
DE carboxylate platform; optimization models; prediction models; response
   surface methodology
ID bioreactors; carboxylic acids; food; machine learning; refuse disposal;
   carboxylation; chemical oxygen demand; forecasting; forestry; machine
   learning; surface properties; carboxylic acid; hexanoic acid; acid
   production; carboxylate platforms; food waste; machine learning models;
   optimization models; prediction algorithms; prediction modeling; production
   optimization; production rates; response surface methodology; carboxylic
   acid; food waste; machine learning; optimization; prediction; response
   surface methodology; article; artificial neural network; bioprocess;
   chemical oxygen demand; controlled study; decision tree; food waste;
   inoculation; landfill; machine learning; microbial community; ph;
   prediction; process development; process optimization; random forest;
   response surface method; retention time; simulated annealing; temperature;
   thermodynamics; bioreactor; food; machine learning; waste disposal;
   simulated annealing

---

UT 1297
AR Yu Z/2, 2024, ADV FOOD NUTR RES, V111, P139, DOI 10.1016/bs.afnr.2024.06.003
TI Ensuring food safety by artificial intelligence-enhanced nanosensor arrays
AU Yu Z/2; Zhao Y/4; Xie Y
TC 4
SO ADV FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2024
AB current analytical methods utilized for food safety inspection requires
   improvement in terms of their cost efficiency , speed of detection , and
   ease of use . sensor array technology has emerged as a food safety
   assessment method that applies multiple cross reactive sensors to identify
   specific targets via pattern recognition . when the sensor arrays are
   fabricated with nanomaterials , the binding affinity of analytes to the
   sensors and the response of sensor arrays can be remarkably enhanced ,
   thereby making the detection process more rapid , sensitive , and accurate .
   data analysis is vital in converting the signals from sensor arrays into
   meaningful information regarding the analytes . as the sensor arrays can
   generate complex , high dimensional data in response to analytes , they
   require the use of machine learning algorithms to reduce the dimensionality
   of the data to gain more reliable outcomes . moreover , the advances in
   handheld smart devices have made it easier to read and analyze the sensor
   array signals , with the advantages of convenience , portability , and
   efficiency . while facing some challenges , the integration of artificial
   intelligence with nanosensor arrays holds promise for enhancing food safety
   monitoring
DE colorimetric sensor; electrochemical sensor; food detection; machine
   learning algorithm; nanomaterial; sensor array
ID artificial intelligence; biosensing techniques; food analysis; food
   contamination; food safety; humans; machine learning; nanostructures;
   nanotechnology; nanomaterial; artificial intelligence; food analysis; food
   contamination; food safety; genetic procedures; human; machine learning;
   nanotechnology; procedures

---

UT 1298
AR Santhosh Krishna BV, 2024, PROC - INT CONF COMPU INTELL SECUR COMMUN SUSTAIN
   DEV CISCSD, P7, DOI 10.1109/CISCSD63381.2024.00014
TI Food Classification using Machine Learning
AU Santhosh Krishna BV; Mai PK; Muthumanickam S
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPU INTELL SECUR COMMUN SUSTAIN DEV CISCSD
PY 2024
AB the use of machine learning techniques in food categorization has received a
   lot of interest since it has the potential to transform a variety of
   industries . food categorization has developed as a critical application of
   machine learning techniques in recent years , providing potential answers to
   a variety of problems in the food business , health monitoring , and
   nutritional evaluation . this paper presents a comprehensive review of
   methodologies , datasets , and challenges associated with food
   classification using machine learning . we will have an overview of linear
   regression . the publicly available datasets are commonly used for training
   and evaluation purposes , along with challenges such as data imbalance ,
   handling missing values , and limited annotated data . we will perform eda ,
   finding products by categories and checking missing values and duplicates
   from the dataset . finally , we identify future research directions aimed at
   improving the accuracy , scalability , and real world applicability of
   machine learning based food classification systems
DE calorie estimation; linear regression; vitamin c content
ID federated learning; food chemistry; c contents; calorie estimations;
   critical applications; food business; health monitoring; machine learning
   techniques; machine learning; nutritional evaluations; vitamin c; vitamin c
   content; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 1299
AR Ahmed MM, 2023, STUD COMPUT INTELL, V1000, P141, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-13702-0_9
TI An Approach to Optimizing Food Quality Prediction Throughout Machine
   Learning
AU Ahmed MM; Hassanien AE
TC 5
SO STUD COMPUT INTELL
PY 2023
AB everything in our life requires real time monitoring and control ,
   especially when preventing food from spoiling . keeping the food from
   spoiling bits helps keep food from spoiling and reduces incidental losses in
   the business . an internet of things ( iot ) -based framework for food
   monitoring is proposed in this paper to protect food from spoilage caused by
   changes in environmental conditions during storage . in the current scenario
   , the prediction was made using recorded sensed data , and a detailed
   analysis was performed to identify the factors causing the food to spoil .
   this chapter proposes an automated controlling mechanism for environmental
   parameters using adaptive random forest prediction and iot . environmental
   parameters such as temperature , humidity , moisture , light , and so on ,
   which affect the nutritional value of food , are considered in the proposed
   work . all sensed data would be stored on the cloud , and analysis will be
   performed to predict the environmental condition at the storage location to
   avoid food spoilage by changing to the appropriate environmental condition .
   in the proposed work , the random forest optimizer method is used to predict
   the state of food if it is fresh or not at the location where food is stored
   , harmful changes are monitored , and action is taken to provide appropriate
   conditions at the stored location . random forest optimizer has scored the
   highest accuracy of 94.01 %
DE food quality prediction; prediction; random forest optimizer

---

UT 1300
AR Jamnekar RV, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V492, P717, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-19-3679-1_62
TI Food Classification Using Deep Learning Algorithm
AU Jamnekar RV; Keole RR; Mohod SW; Mahore TR; Pande S
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB monitoring of food plays a significant role in leading health related issues
   and tasks . with its multiple applications and features , image processing
   emerges to be an interesting field in the process of identifying food items
   . in this paper , a technique has been presented for classifying the food
   image using the you only look once ( yolo ) algorithm . unlike the
   conventional artificial neural networks , the yolo algorithm has more
   efficiency , and it has been trained on a loss function that corresponds
   straight to detection , and the complete model is trained with 6000 epochs .
   due to the high variance in the alike domain of food images , food
   classification becomes a difficult task but it has a significant role in
   lives at the present time as it can be utilized by numerous sources . in
   this paper , a comparison of the working of the yolo algorithm with other
   techniques that are used in image processing such as resnet 50 , vgg 16 ,
   imagenet , and inception has been elaborated . in this work , the famous
   dataset from kaggle is used for implementation purposes . the dataset
   consists of 4000 indian food image 80 different categories or classes . the
   proposed model is giving 99 % accuracy for classifying the food
DE classification; convolution neural networks; detection; food; image
   preprocessing; image processing; yolo algorithm

---

UT 1301
AR Wu P-J, 2024, J ENTERP MANAG, V37, P307, DOI 10.1108/JEIM-10-2022-0398
TI Artificial intelligence-based food-quality and warehousing management for
   food banks' inbound logistics
AU Wu P-J; Tai Y-C
TC 22
SO J ENTERP MANAG
PY 2024
AB purpose : in the reduction of food waste and the provision of food to the
   hungry , food banks play critical roles . however , as they are generally
   run by charitable organizations that are chronically short of human and
   other resources , their inbound logistics efforts commonly experience
   difficulties in two key areas : 1 ) how to organize stocks of donated food ,
   and 2 ) how to assess the donated items quality and fitness for purpose . to
   address both these problems , the authors aimed to develop a novel
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) -based approach to food quality and
   warehousing management in food banks . design / methodology / approach : for
   diagnosing the quality of donated food items , the authors designed a
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) . and to ascertain how best to arrange
   such items within food banks available space , reinforcement learning was
   used . findings : testing of the proposed innovative cnn demonstrated its
   ability to provide consistent , accurate assessments of the quality of five
   species of donated fruit . the reinforcement learning approach , as well as
   being capable of devising effective storage schemes for donated food ,
   required fewer computational resources that some other approaches that have
   been proposed . research limitations / implications : viewed through the
   lens of expectation confirmation theory , which the authors found useful as
   a framework for research of this kind , the proposed ai based inbound
   logistics techniques exceeded normal expectations and achieved positive
   disconfirmation . practical implications : as well as enabling machines to
   learn how inbound logistics are handed by human operators , this pioneering
   study showed that such machines could achieve excellent performance : i . e
   . , that the consistency provided by ai operations could in future
   dramatically enhance such logistics quality , in the specific case of food
   banks . originality / value : this paper s ai based inbound logistics
   approach differs considerably from others , and was found able to
   effectively manage both food quality assessments and food storage decisions
   more rapidly than its counterparts
DE artificial intelligence; food banks; inbound logistics; quality management;
   warehousing management

---

UT 1302
AR Ashraf M/1, 2023, PROC - IEEE INT CONF INTELL COMPUT SYST ICICIS, P509, DOI
   10.1109/ICICIS58388.2023.10391164
TI Improved Ingredients-based Recipe Recommendation Software using Machine
   Learning
AU Ashraf M/1; Tarek K; Fathy N; Mahmoud M; Emad R; Khaled K; Amr N
TC 2
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF INTELL COMPUT SYST ICICIS
PY 2023
AB in this paper we propose an improved recipe recommendation system that
   employs image recognition of food ingredients . the system is currently a
   mobile application that performs image recognition on uploaded or camera
   captured images and recommends recipes containing the recognized ingredients
   . we used the resnet v2 architecture to build a convolutional neural network
   model for image recognition , which was able to identify 33 different food
   ingredients with an accuracy rate of 89 % . the recommendation system uses
   the identified ingredient labels , as well as user preferences and
   restrictions , to display a list of recipes containing the identified
   ingredients . this feature allows users to discover new and exciting recipes
   based on the ingredients they currently have at home , without having to
   worry about dietary restrictions or other preferences . overall , our system
   provides a convenient and personalized way for users to discover and prepare
   delicious meals based on their unique needs and preferences
DE artificial intelligence; content-based; machine learning; preference; recipe
   recommendation; resnet neural network
ID convolutional neural networks; image enhancement; machine learning;
   recommender systems; camera-captured images; content-based; convolutional
   neural network; food ingredients; machine learning; mobile applications;
   neural networks; preference; recipe recommendation; resnet neural network;
   image recognition

---

UT 1303
AR Sapienza S, 2023, AI SOC, V38, P5, DOI 10.1007/s00146-021-01282-1
TI Principle-based recommendations for big data and machine learning in food
   safety: the P-SAFETY model
AU Sapienza S; Vedder A
TC 15
SO AI SOC
PY 2023
AB big data and machine learning techniques are reshaping the way in which food
   safety risk assessment is conducted . the ongoing datafication of food
   safety risk assessment activities and the progressive deployment of
   probabilistic models in their practices requires a discussion on the
   advantages and disadvantages of these advances . in particular , the low
   level of trust in eu food safety risk assessment framework highlighted in
   2019 by an eu funded survey could be exacerbated by novel methods of
   analysis . the variety of processed data raises unique questions regarding
   the interplay of multiple regulatory systems alongside food safety
   legislation . provisions aiming to preserve the confidentiality of data and
   protect personal information are juxtaposed to norms prescribing the public
   disclosure of scientific information . this research is intended to provide
   guidance for data governance and data ownership issues that unfold from the
   ongoing transformation of the technical and legal domains of food safety
   risk assessment . following the reconstruction of technological advances in
   data collection and analysis and the description of recent amendments to
   food safety legislation , emerging concerns are discussed in light of the
   individual , collective and social implications of the deployment of cutting
   edge big data collection and analysis techniques . then , a set of principle
   based recommendations is proposed by adapting high level principles
   enshrined in institutional documents about artificial intelligence to the
   realm of food safety risk assessment . the proposed set of recommendations
   adopts safety , accountability , fairness , explainability , transparency as
   core principles ( safety ) , whereas privacy and data protection are used as
   a meta principle
DE big data; data governance; data ownership; food safety; machine learning;
   risk assessment
ID big data; data acquisition; data privacy; food safety; laws and legislation;
   machine learning; metadata; safety engineering; assessment activities; data
   collection; data governances; data ownership; food safety; machine learning
   techniques; machine learning; risks assessments; safety legislation; safety
   risk assessments; risk assessment

---

UT 1304
AR Agarwal R, 2023, J FOOD PROCESS PRESERV, V2023, DOI 10.1155/2023/6612302
TI Hybrid Deep Learning Algorithm-Based Food Recognition and Calorie Estimation
AU Agarwal R; Choudhury T; Ahuja NJ/1; Sarkar T
TC 28
SO J FOOD PROCESS PRESERV
PY 2023
AB every individual requires some sort of system that informs them about
   portions and calories of food , as well as providing them with directions on
   how to consume it . in our study , we propose a hybrid architecture that
   makes use of deep learning algorithms to forecast the number of calories in
   various food items on a bowl . this consists of three major components :
   segmentation , classification , and calculating the volume and calories of
   food items . when we use a mask rcnn , the images are first segmented .
   using the yolo v5 framework , features are collected from the segmented
   images and the food item is categorized . in order to determine the
   dimensions of each food item , we identify the items first . in order to
   calculate the quantity of the food item , the estimated dimension must be
   used . the calories are then computed using the food item s volume . the
   aforementioned approaches , which were trained on the dataset s food images
   , that correctly identified and forecasted a food item s calories had an
   accuracy of 97.12 % . to provide directions on how to consume food is
   expected by individual and will be completed after knowing intake of volume
   of food . 2023 ritu agarwal et al .
ID learning algorithms; calorie estimations; food image; hybrid architectures;
   segmented images; deep learning

---

UT 1305
AR Mei S/1, 2024, INT J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V59, P2547, DOI 10.1111/ijfs.16992
TI Predicting health effects of food compounds via ensemble machine learning
AU Mei S/1
TC 2
SO INT J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB identifying natural or synthetic compounds in foods and assaying their
   bioactivities have significantly contributed to promoting human health . in
   this work , we propose a machine learning framework to predict 101 classes
   of health effects of food compounds at a large scale . in this framework ,
   random undersampling boosting ( rusboost ) is used as base learners to
   tackle the problem of skewed class distributions and maccskeys similarity
   spectra are proposed as a feature engineering strategy to represent chemical
   molecules including food compounds , natural products and drugs .
   computational results show that rusboost learners encouragingly reduce model
   biases , and that the knowledge learnt from food compounds is well
   transferable to natural products ( 0.84060.9040 recall rates for
   antibacterial , antivirals , pesticide and anticancer effects ) and drugs (
   0.7890.9690 recall rates for antibacterial , antiviral , antineoplastic and
   analgesic effects ) . and . dozens of novel effects have been validated in
   recent literature . these pieces of evidence show that the proposed
   framework could help us to find lead compounds from food as potential
   pharmaceuticals and repurpose drugs for anticancer , antiviral or
   antibacterial therapies . finally , we use the proposed framework to predict
   beneficial and risky health effects of food flavor compounds as case studies
   for recipe composing . 2024 institute of food , science and technology (
   ifsttf ) .
DE ensemble learning; food ingredient bioactivities; maccs fingerprints;
   machine learning; multi-label learning; natural products; transfer learning
ID chemical contamination; drug products; forecasting; lead compounds; learning
   systems; machine learning; pesticides; ensemble learning; food ingredient
   bioactivity; food ingredients; health effects; maccs fingerprint; machine
   learning; multi-label learning; natural products; random under samplings;
   transfer learning; bioactivity

---

UT 1306
AR Singh B/1, 2024, SUSTAIN DISPOS METHODS FOOD WASTES HOSP OPER, P176, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-2181-2.ch012
TI Salvaging responsible consumption and production of food in the Hospitality
   Industry: Harnessing machine learning and deep learning for zero food waste
AU Singh B/1; Kaunert C
TC 124
SO SUSTAIN DISPOS METHODS FOOD WASTES HOSP OPER
PY 2024
AB the hospitality industry stands at the forefront of addressing critical
   challenges in responsible consumption and production of food , and this
   research endeavors to spearhead transformative solutions by harnessing the
   power of machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) technologies . in
   the contemporary context , where issues like global hunger , malnutrition ,
   and the intricate dynamics of food adulteration significantly impact the
   industry s demand supply mechanism , the integration of advanced
   technological strategies becomes paramount . this chapter strategically
   examines the role of ml and dl in achieving zero waste within the
   hospitality sector , offering a nuanced exploration of challenges and
   presenting innovative strategies to thwart food loss waste management

---

UT 1307
AR Sumanth M, 2024, PROC - INT CONF INVEN COMPUT INFORMATICS ICICI, P103, DOI
   10.1109/ICICI62254.2024.00026
TI Deep Learning based Automated Food Image Classification
AU Sumanth M; Reddy AH; Abhishek D; Balaji SV; Amarendra K; Srinivas PVVS
TC 4
SO PROC - INT CONF INVEN COMPUT INFORMATICS ICICI
PY 2024
AB food image classification is essential for numerous applications , like
   nutritional analysis , food recording , and dietary evaluation . the
   proliferation of social media and smartphones generated a significant
   increase in the sharing of food photographs online , necessitating automated
   systems capable of accurately classifying food items in images .
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) , particularly the mobilenetv2
   architecture , have emerged as extremely strong machinery for identifying
   image tasks because of its capacity to extract unique characteristics
   directly from raw pixel data . this work focuses on utilizing cnns and the
   mobilenetv2 architecture for deep learning based automatic food image
   classification . mobilenetv2 strikes a balance between classification
   accuracy and processing efficiency , making it suitable for mobile and
   embedded vision applications . the study addresses important challenges in
   food image classification , including intra class variances , cluttered
   backgrounds , and disparities in food appearance . the objective aims to set
   up a reliable and effective system which can determine food products in
   various visual scenarios by leveraging state of the art deep learning
   techniques
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food classification; food
   photographs; image classification; mobilenetv2; nutrition
ID automated systems; convolutional neural network; deep learning; food
   classification; food image; food photograph; images classification;
   mobilenetv2; smart phones; social media; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1308
AR Cunha C, 2024, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V241, P606, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2024.08.088
TI Unveiling Neural Networks for Personalized Diet Recommendations
AU Cunha C; Rebelo J; Duarte R
TC 1
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB the growing prevalence of poor nutrition is a major public health concern ,
   as it fuels the rise of various diseases . obesity , a silent and rapidly
   growing threat linked to unhealthy eating , is a prime example . despite the
   abundance of information on diets and recipes , finding a personalized
   approach to healthy eating can be a challenge . recommendation systems can
   filter from a food logging dataset the information that best suits the
   nutrition profile of a given user . a powerful tool to use in food
   recommendation systems is neural networks . however , the user s available
   data are often limited , which compromises the performance of neural based
   food recommendation models . to enhance user trust in food recommendations ,
   this paper proposes a method using a secondary model to predict the errors
   of the primary neural network , especially when dealing with limited data
DE error prediction; machine learning; personalized nutrition
ID error prediction; health concerns; limited data; machine learning; neural
   networks; performance; personalized nutrition

---

UT 1309
AR Sripada NK, 2023, INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS - PROC,
   P138, DOI 10.1109/ICSSAS57918.2023.10331787
TI AI-Driven Nutritional Assessment Improving Diets with Machine Learning and
   Deep Learning for Food Image Classification
AU Sripada NK; Challa SC; Kothakonda S
TC 12
SO INT CONF SELF SUSTAIN ARTIF INTELL SYST ICSSAS - PROC
PY 2023
AB maintaining a balanced and healthy diet is of utmost importance to prevent
   food borne illnesses and promote overall well being . to address this
   critical aspect of human health , we leverage the influence of deep learning
   algorithms and machine learning techniques to automate accurate food image
   classification and estimate essential food attributes . our proposed
   approach entails the use of a sophisticated hybrid model that combines a
   deep learning convolutional neural network ( cnn ) and support vector
   machine ( svm ) , which efficiently categorizes various food items into
   specific groups of healthy and unhealthy classes . the proposed model
   streamlines the feature extraction process through cnn and harnesses the svm
   classifier for classification tasks . to assess the efficacy of our approach
   , we conducted experiments utilizing a customized dataset . the experimental
   findings underline the exceptional performance of our hybrid model ,
   achieving an impressive accuracy rate of 97 % , which outperforms the
   standalone cnn model , yielding an accuracy of 94 % . furthermore , our work
   demonstrates remarkable improvements across various metrics , including
   precision , f1-score , and recall
DE convolutional neural network; deep neural network architecture; foodborne;
   healthy food; machine learning; unhealthy food
ID convolution; deep neural networks; image classification; image enhancement;
   learning algorithms; learning systems; network architecture; nutrition;
   support vector machines; convolutional neural network; deep neural network
   architecture; food image; foodborne; healthy foods; hybrid model; images
   classification; machine learning; neural network architecture; unhealthy
   food; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1310
AR Natesan P, 2023, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC, P233, DOI
   10.1109/ICCMC56507.2023.10084041
TI Prediction of Healthy and Unhealthy Food Items using Deep Learning
AU Natesan P; Thamil Selvan R; Shrivarshini M; Dhanya B; Kalaiselvi S
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC
PY 2023
AB in recent times , people are mostly attracted to fast food . in this paper ,
   a model for categorizing food products using convolutional neural networks
   has been built . deep learning facts are being used in day to day life and
   recognizing objects through image processing . convolutional neural networks
   are effective for classifying photographs of food because they exclude
   distracting characteristics from images . by implementing this model , the
   layers involved here to convert the three dimensional input into an output
   volume and to filter input to a higher level of abstraction . this proposed
   model may help people to identify healthy and unhealthy food items and save
   us from causes of diseases . this study used image datasets we built , with
   the images coming from social media and already existing image datasets (
   kaggle ) and ( google ) . the findings of this study demonstrate how much
   more effective the system is in classifying images when compared to other
   approaches . the suggested method includes more visual elements than other
   method and that it performs better at classifying food images . according to
   the experimental findings , the classification of foods as healthy or
   unhealthy is 90 % accurate
DE classification; deep learning; fast foods; healthy; traditional food;
   unhealthy
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; image
   classification; convolutional neural network; deep learning; fast food;
   filter input; healthy; high level of abstraction; image datasets; images
   processing; traditional food; unhealthy; food products

---

UT 1311
AR Mehenni T, 2024, INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL DISASTER MANAG ICT-DM, DOI
   10.1109/ICT-DM62768.2024.10798959
TI Leveraging machine learning models for food security and crisis management
   in Algeria
AU Mehenni T; Bouti H; Zerrouak FZ
TC 1
SO INT CONF COMMUN TECHNOL DISASTER MANAG ICT-DM
PY 2024
AB the food sector in algeria and many countries around the world faces
   multiple challenges , ranging from environmental pollution and climate
   change to fluctuations in production and distribution processes , increasing
   the complexities of maintaining food safety and mitigating health and
   environmental risks . this paper addressed analysis and prediction of food
   insecurity risks through the development of predictive models . various
   models were reviewed and applied to real market data , focusing on
   predicting product prices and assessing food safety risks . the results
   showed that polynomial regression and decision tree models were the most
   efficient in accurately predicting and classifying the products , confirming
   their effectiveness in food safety applications . these findings contribute
   to providing accurate recommendations and making informed decisions to
   enhance food safety and better crisis management in the future
DE crisis management; food crisis forecasting; food safety risk; food security;
   machine learning; prediction models
ID algeria; crisis management; food crisis forecasting; food safety risk; food
   security; food safety; machine learning models; machine learning; prediction
   modeling; safety risks; prediction models

---

UT 1312
AR Akinyelu AA, 2024, IEEE CONF IND ELECTRON APPL ICIEA, DOI
   10.1109/ICIEA61579.2024.10664919
TI Deep Learning for Sustainable Food Systems: Mitigating Climate Change
   Through Food Waste Reduction
AU Akinyelu AA; Esho EO
TC 2
SO IEEE CONF IND ELECTRON APPL ICIEA
PY 2024
AB climate change is a critical global issue , with food waste being a
   significant contributing factor due to its environmental impacts , including
   greenhouse gas emissions . reducing food waste can substantially mitigate
   climate change . this study introduces a lightweight , nature inspired multi
   channel deep learning technique utilizing capsule neural networks and
   particle swarm optimization ( pso ) for hyperparameter tuning . the multi
   channel capsnet model automatically classifies fresh and rotten fruits .
   trained and evaluated on over 23,200 images of apples and bananas , the
   model achieved perfect test accuracy , precision , f1 score , and roc score
   of 100 % . this research promotes sustainable practices in the food industry
   , aligning with global efforts to minimize climate change impacts and
   enhance resource efficiency
DE capsule neural network; climate change; deep learning; food waste reduction
ID capsule neural network; contributing factor; deep learning; food system;
   food waste; food waste reduction; global issues; multi-channel; neural
   networks; waste reduction

---

UT 1313
AR Aguilar E, 2022, COMPUT BIOL MED, V146, DOI 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2022.105645
TI Uncertainty-aware selecting for an ensemble of deep food recognition models
AU Aguilar E; Nagarajan B; Radeva P
TC 15
SO COMPUT BIOL MED
PY 2022
AB deep learning is a machine learning technique that has revolutionized the
   research community due to its impressive results on various real life
   problems . recently , ensembles of convolutional neural networks ( cnn )
   have proven to achieve high robustness and accuracy in numerous computer
   vision challenges . as expected , the more models we add to the ensemble ,
   the better performance we can obtain , but , in contrast , more computer
   resources are needed . hence , the importance of deciding how many models to
   use and which models to select from a pool of trained models is huge . from
   the latter , a common strategy in deep learning is to select the models
   randomly or according to the results on the validation set . however , in
   this way models are chosen based on individual performance ignoring how they
   are expected to work together . alternatively , to ensure a better
   complement between models , an exhaustive search can be used by evaluating
   the performance of several ensemble models based on different numbers and
   combinations of trained models . nevertheless , this may result in being
   high computationally expensive . considering that epistemic uncertainty
   analysis has recently been successfully employed to understand model
   learning , we aim to analyze whether an uncertainty aware epistemic method
   can help us decide which groups of cnn models may work best . the method was
   validated on several food datasets and with different cnn architectures . in
   most cases , our proposal outperforms the results by a statistically
   significant range with respect to the baseline techniques and is much less
   computationally expensive compared to the brute force search
DE food recognition deep learning ensemble learning model selection
   convolutional neural networks uncertainty estimation
ID machine learning; neural networks computer; uncertainty; convolution; deep
   learning; uncertainty analysis; convolutional neural network; ensemble
   learning; food recognition deep learning ensemble learning model selection
   convolutional neural network uncertainty estimation; learning models; model
   selection; network uncertainties; performance; recognition models;
   uncertainty; uncertainty estimation; article; convolutional neural network;
   deep learning; human; learning; machine learning; sensitivity analysis;
   uncertainty; uncertainty; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1314
AR Abekoon T, 2024, DISCOV SUSTAIN, V5, DOI 10.1007/s43621-024-00371-7
TI A comprehensive review to evaluate the synergy of intelligent food packaging
   with modern food technology and artificial intelligence field
AU Abekoon T; Buthpitiya BLSK; Sajindra H; Samarakoon ERJ; Jayakody JADCA;
   Kantamaneni K; Rathnayake U
TC 66
SO DISCOV SUSTAIN
PY 2024
AB this study reviews recent advancements in food science and technology ,
   analyzing their impact on the development of intelligent food packaging
   within the complex food supply chain . modern food technology has brought
   about intelligent food packaging , which includes sensors , indicators ,
   data carriers , and artificial intelligence . this innovative packaging
   helps monitor food quality and safety . these innovations collectively aim
   to establish an unbroken chain of food safety , freshness , and traceability
   , from production to consumption . this research explores the components and
   technologies of intelligent food packaging , focusing on key indicators like
   timetemperature indicators , gas indicators , freshness indicators , and
   pathogen indicators to ensure optimal product quality . it further
   incorporates various types of sensors , including gas sensors , chemical
   sensors , biosensors , printed electronics , and electronic noses . it
   integrates data carriers such as barcodes and radio frequency identification
   to enhance the complexity and functionality of this system . the review
   emphasizes the growing influence of artificial intelligence . it looks at
   new advances in artificial intelligence that are driving the development of
   intelligent packaging , making it better at preserving food freshness and
   quality . this review explores how modern food technologies , especially
   artificial intelligence integration , are revolutionizing intelligent
   packaging for food safety , quality , reduced waste , and enhanced
   traceability
DE artificial intelligence; data careers; indicators; intelligent packaging;
   sensors
ID artificial intelligence; food quality; food safety; food supply; sensor

---

UT 1315
AR Tunali V, 2024, J GASTROENTEROL, V119, P1901, DOI
   10.14309/ajg.0000000000002862
TI A Multicenter Randomized Controlled Trial of Microbiome-Based Artificial
   Intelligence-Assisted Personalized Diet vs Low-Fermentable Oligosaccharides,
   Disaccharides, Monosaccharides, and Polyols Diet: A Novel Approach for the
   Management of Irritable Bowel Syndrome
AU Tunali V; Çidem Arslan N; Ermiş BH; Hakim GD; Gündoğdu A; Hora M;
   Nalbantoğlu ÖU
TC 37
SO J GASTROENTEROL
PY 2024
AB introduction : personalized management strategies are pivotal in addressing
   irritable bowel syndrome ( ibs ) . this multicenter randomized controlled
   trial focuses on comparing the efficacy of a microbiome based artificial
   intelligence assisted personalized diet ( pd ) with a low fermentable
   oligosaccharides , disaccharides , monosaccharides , and polyols diet (
   fodmap ) for ibs management . methods : one hundred twenty one patients
   participated , with 70 assigned to the pd group and 51 to the fodmap diet
   group . ibs subtypes , demographics , symptom severity ( ibs sss ) , anxiety
   , depression , and quality of life ( ibs qol ) were evaluated . both
   interventions spanned 6 weeks . the trial s primary outcome was the within
   individual difference in ibs sss compared between intervention groups .
   results : for the primary outcome , there was a change in ibs sss of 2112.7
   for those in the pd group vs 299.9 for those in the fodmap diet group ( p 5
   0.29 ) . significant improvement occurred in ibs sss scores ( p < 0.001 ) ,
   frequency ( p < 0.001 ) , abdominal distension ( p < 0.001 ) , and life
   interference ( p < 0.001 ) in both groups . in addition , there were
   significant improvements in anxiety levels and ibs qol scores for both
   groups ( p < 0.001 ) . importantly , pd was effective in reducing ibs sss
   scores across all ibs subtypes ibs constipation ( ibs c . p < 0.001 ) , ibs
   diarrhea ( ibs d . p 5 0.01 ) , and ibs mixed ( ibs m . p < 0.001 ) while
   fodmap diet exhibited comparable improvements in ibs c ( p 5 0.004 ) and ibs
   m ( p < 0.001 ) . pd intervention significantly improved ibs qol scores for
   all subtypes ( ibs c [ p < 0.001 ] , ibs d [ p < 0.001 ] , and ibs m [ p 5
   0.008 ] ) while the fodmap diet did so for the ibs c ( p 5 0.004 ) and ibs d
   ( p 5 0.022 ) . notably , pd intervention led to significant microbiome
   diversity shifts ( p < 0.05 ) and taxa alterations compared with fodmap diet
   . discussion : the artificial intelligence assisted pd emerges as a
   promising approach for comprehensive ibs management . with its ability to
   address individual variation , the pd approach demonstrates significant
   symptom relief , enhanced qol , and notable diversity shifts in the gut
   microbiome , making it a valuable strategy in the evolving landscape of ibs
   care
DE artificial intelligence; irritable bowel syndrome; microbiome; personalized
   diet
ID adult; anxiety; artificial intelligence; diet carbohydrate-restricted;
   disaccharides; female; fermentation; gastrointestinal microbiome; humans;
   irritable bowel syndrome; male; middle aged; monosaccharides;
   oligosaccharides; polymers; precision medicine; quality of life; severity of
   illness index; treatment outcome; disaccharide; monosaccharide;
   oligosaccharide; rna 16s; trace element; oligosaccharide; polymer; polyol;
   abdominal distension; adult; anxiety; article; artificial intelligence;
   bioinformatics; constipation; consultation; controlled study; depression;
   diarrhea; dietary compliance; dietitian; disease severity; dna extraction;
   dna isolation; feces analysis; female; gastroenterology; gluten-free diet;
   human; inflammatory bowel disease; low fodmap diet; major clinical study;
   male; microbiome; multicenter study; personalized nutrition; quality of
   life; randomized controlled trial; rna sequence; artificial intelligence;
   clinical trial; fermentation; intestine flora; irritable colon; low
   carbohydrate diet; microbiology; middle aged; personalized medicine;
   procedures; quality of life; severity of illness index; therapy; treatment
   outcome

---

UT 1316
AR Gryak J, 2024, J ALLERGY CLIN IMMUNOL GLOB, V3, DOI
   10.1016/j.jacig.2024.100252
TI Prediction of pediatric peanut oral food challenge outcomes using machine
   learning
AU Gryak J; Georgievska A; Zhang J/4; Najarian K; Ravikumar R; Sanders G;
   Schuler CF IV
TC 13
SO J ALLERGY CLIN IMMUNOL GLOB
PY 2024
AB background : clinical testing , including food specific skin and serum ige
   level tests , provides limited accuracy to predict food allergy .
   confirmatory oral food challenges ( ofcs ) are often required , but the
   associated risks , cost , and logistic difficulties comprise a barrier to
   proper diagnosis . objective : we sought to utilize advanced machine
   learning methodologies to integrate clinical variables associated with
   peanut allergy to create a predictive model for ofcs to improve predictive
   performance over that of purely statistical methods . methods : machine
   learning was applied to the learning early about peanut allergy ( leap )
   study of 463 peanut ofcs and associated clinical variables . patient wise
   cross validation was used to create ensemble models that were evaluated on
   holdout test sets . these models were further evaluated by using 2
   additional peanut allergy of course cohorts : the impact study cohort and a
   local university of michigan cohort . results : in the leap data set , the
   ensemble models achieved a maximum mean area under the curve of 0.997 , with
   a sensitivity and specificity of 0.994 and 1.00 , respectively . in the
   combined validation data sets , the top ensemble model achieved a maximum
   area under the curve of 0.871 , with a sensitivity and specificity of 0.763
   and 0.980 , respectively . conclusions : machine learning models for
   predicting peanut of course results have the potential to accurately predict
   of course outcomes , potentially minimizing the need for ofcs while
   increasing confidence in food allergy diagnoses
DE anaphylaxis; food allergy; machine learning; oral food challenges; peanut
   allergy

---

UT 1317
AR Marfuah D, 2022, J ROBOT CONTROL, V3, P519, DOI 10.18196/jrc.v3i4.15232
TI Current Trends in Intelligent Control Neural Networks for Thermal Processing
   (Foods): Systematic Literature Review
AU Marfuah D; Ulya NK; Kusudaryati DPD; Wardana AS; Nugroho E
TC 3
SO J ROBOT CONTROL
PY 2022
AB thermal processing is a technique for sterilizing foods through heating at
   high temperatures . thermal processing plays a significant role in
   preserving foods economically , efficiently , reliably , and safely .
   control in thermal processing of foods is necessary to avoid any decrease in
   food quality , i . e . , color change , reduced content , sensory quality ,
   and nutrition . artificial neural network ( ann ) has been developed as a
   computing method in research and developments on thermal processing methods
   to discover one suitable for food processing without damaging food quality .
   to this date , ann has been used in food industries for modeling many
   processes . the paper aims to identify the latest trend in intelligent
   neural network control for the thermal processing of foods . the paper
   conducted a systematic literature review with five research questions using
   preferred reporting items for systematic review ( prisma ) . according to
   screening results and article selection , 240 potential articles have
   fulfilled the inclusion criteria . then , each article was explored to
   identify the advantage and the advance of intelligent network control in
   thermal food processing . it can be concluded that the technology in
   information and computations of food processing has rapidly developed and
   advanced through the utilization of a combination of ann with fuzzy logic
   and / or genetic algorithms
DE artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; food processing; neural
   network; thermal processing

---

UT 1318
AR Mio C, 2024, INT JT CONF COMPUT INTELL, V1, P568, DOI
   10.5220/0012998100003837
TI A Comparison of Advanced Machine Learning Models for Food Import Forecasting
AU Mio C; Shakya S
TC 0
SO INT JT CONF COMPUT INTELL
PY 2024
AB food security is responsible for food availability , access and price
   stability . food import is used to ensure availability when local production
   is inadequate and diversity when local production is not possible . food
   import prediction is one of the tools used to ensure food security . in this
   case study , we analyze neural network forecasting models applied to a food
   import dataset to understand whether these models , when applied to small
   time series , perform better than statistical or regression models . and if
   it is better to use short or long forecast horizons . 2024 by scitepress
   science and technology publications , lda .
DE food import; forecasting; neural network; time series
ID food ingredients; prediction models; case-studies; food availability; food
   import; food prices; food security; local production; machine learning
   models; neural networks; price stability; times series; food chemistry

---

UT 1319
AR Kathuria I, 2023, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT56998.2023.10306446
TI Real-Time Temperature Based Food Recommendation using Artificial
   Intelligence
AU Kathuria I; Bhatia M; Atrey A; Sujith S
TC 3
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence is a revolutionary feat in the world of technology .
   it is set to become a core component of all modern software over the coming
   years and decades . one of the domains where ai can play an important role
   is that of nutrition . many factors influence an individual s health , such
   as physical exercise , sleep , heredity , and pollution but food and
   nutrition are some of the most important factors being a daily individual
   need . food varies greatly based on a person , the season , and the time of
   day . with the variations in personal food requirements and preferences ,
   this research paper aimed to create a fuzzy logic and machine learning model
   to create a recommendation engine for food items based on the weather
   outside
DE artificial intelligence; food recommendation; fuzzy logic; machine learning
ID computer circuits; machine learning; nutrition; core components; food
   recommendation; fuzzy logic; machine learning models; machine learning;
   physical exercise; real- time; research papers; time of day; time-
   temperature; fuzzy logic

---

UT 1320
AR Vegesna VV, 2024, NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS, P501, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-5528-2.ch019
TI AI for food safety: Leveraging artificial intelligence to ensure a safe and
   reliable food supply
AU Vegesna VV; Prabhakaran SM; Whig P
TC 26
SO NUTR CONTROV ADV AUTOIMMUNE DIS
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is revolutionizing the field of food safety
   by providing advanced tools and techniques to ensure the integrity and
   safety of the food supply chain . this chapter delves into the applications
   of ai in food safety , highlighting how ai technologies , including machine
   learning , computer vision , and predictive analytics , are employed to
   detect contaminants , prevent foodborne illnesses , and ensure compliance
   with safety standards . the authors explore various ai driven approaches for
   real time monitoring , data analysis , and risk assessment within the food
   industry . case studies and examples from real world implementations
   demonstrate the effectiveness of ai in identifying potential hazards and
   improving overall food safety protocols . by integrating ai into food safety
   practices , this chapter illustrates the transformative potential of
   intelligent systems in safeguarding public health and enhancing the
   reliability of food products

---

UT 1321
AR Li X/7, 2023, FOODS, V12, DOI 10.3390/foods12152976
TI Recent Advance of Intelligent Packaging Aided by Artificial Intelligence for
   Monitoring Food Freshness
AU Li X/7; Liu D/3; Pu Y/1; Zhong Y
TC 73
SO FOODS
PY 2023
AB food safety is a pressing concern for human society , as it directly impacts
   people s lives , while food freshness serves as one of the most crucial
   indicators in ensuring food safety . there exist diverse techniques for
   monitoring food freshness , among which intelligent packaging based on
   artificial intelligence technology boasts the advantages of low cost , high
   efficiency , fast speed and wide applicability . however , it is currently
   underutilized . by analyzing the current research status of intelligent
   packaging both domestically and internationally , this paper provides a
   clear classification of intelligent packaging technology . additionally , it
   outlines the advantages and disadvantages of using intelligent packaging
   technology for food freshness detection methods , while summarizing the
   latest research progress in applying artificial intelligence based
   technologies to food freshness detection through intelligent packaging .
   finally , the author points out the limitations of the current research ,
   and anticipates future developments in artificial intelligence technology
   for assisting freshness detection in intelligent packaging . this will
   provide valuable insights for the future development of intelligent
   packaging in the field of food freshness detection
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning algorithms; food freshness detection;
   food industry; intelligent packaging technology

---

UT 1322
AR Tanemura N, 2024, FOOD HUMANIT, V3, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2024.100427
TI Feature extraction contributing to risk-acceptance prediction by machine
   learning models in food benefit-risk communication in Japan
AU Tanemura N; Machii Y; Kakizaki M; Kusumi T; Onodera R; Tominaga Y; Araki M
TC 0
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2024
AB to protect public health , it is crucial to reduce the perception gap that
   exists between experts and the public . this can ensure appropriately
   informed food choices based on scientific evidence . this study aimed to
   build a machine learning model to predict public risk acceptance to ensure
   the promotion of effective food risk communication between experts and the
   public for bringing peace of mind to the public . we developed a machine
   learning model for public risk acceptance and evaluated its accuracy with
   risk acceptance as the output data and background information and included
   age , gender , health status , numeracy score , trust in public institutions
   , personal characteristics ( self motivation , controllability , involvement
   , and anxiety ) , favorability toward fish , risk perception , benefit
   perception , frequency of fish consumption , and message type as input data
   . we used the data from a randomized controlled study conducted in 2022 in
   japan among 7200 participants . in total , 3324 of 3600 men and 3295 of 3600
   women were in the top ( high benefit and low risk ) perception category .
   the accuracy of the machine learning model for the prediction of risk
   acceptance of the public was high for both men and women with f values of
   0.926 ( sd : 0.000 ) and 0.911 ( sd : 0.000 ) , respectively . this is the
   first study using a machine learning approach in food safety . the accuracy
   of the risk acceptance estimation model was high . the findings can help
   public agencies pre design communication before disseminating health
   information , thereby contributing to effective benefit risk communication
   via a machine learning model
DE benefit-risk communication; feature extraction; health message; risk
   acceptance

---

UT 1323
AR Guleria S, 2024, PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN TECHNOL ICACCTECH, P900,
   DOI 10.1109/ICACCTech65084.2024.00148
TI Fusing Tradition with Technology Through Machine Learning and Blockchain for
   Enhanced Food Quality and Heritage Preservation in Himachali Dham
AU Guleria S; Chauhan S; Bakshi I
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN TECHNOL ICACCTECH
PY 2024
AB traditional food heritage and contemporary supply chain technologies are
   connected in this study . the cultural importance of himachali dham , a
   traditional meal from himachal pradesh , is highlighted through its
   reflection of established vedic traditions and regional influences ,
   underscoring the value of maintaining food heritage . concurrently ,
   critical challenges related to food quality , safety , and traceability are
   tackled through the use of blockchain and machine learning technologies in
   food supply chains . by integrating these approaches , the study emphasizes
   how advanced digital tools can be utilized to safeguard traditional
   practices while improving transparency and efficiency in food management
   systems
DE blockchain in food supply chain; cultural preservation; ethnic foods; food
   heritage; food quality prediction; food safety monitoring; food
   traceability; himachali dham; machine learning in food quality; shelf life
   management; smart contracts in food systems; supply chain management;
   sustainable food systems; traditional cuisine; vedic food traditions
ID shelf life; blockchain; blockchain in food supply chain; chain management;
   cultural preservation; ethnic food; food heritage; food quality; food
   quality prediction; food safety monitoring; food supply chain; food system;
   food traceabilitys; food safety; himachali dham; machine learning in food
   quality; machine learning; safety monitoring; shelf life; shelf life
   management; smart contract in food system; sustainable food system;
   traditional cuisine; vedic food tradition; food ingredients

---

UT 1324
AR Cengel TA, 2025, J FOOD SCI, V90, DOI 10.1111/1750-3841.17553
TI Automating egg damage detection for improved quality control in the food
   industry using deep learning
AU Cengel TA; Gencturk B; Yasin ET; Yildiz MB; Cinar I; Koklu M
TC 9
SO J FOOD SCI
PY 2025
AB the detection and classification of damage to eggs within the egg industry
   are of paramount importance for the production of healthy eggs . this study
   focuses on the automatic identification of cracks and surface damage in
   chicken eggs using deep learning algorithms . the goal is to enhance egg
   quality control in the food industry by accurately identifying eggs with
   physical damage , such as cracks , fractures , or other surface defects ,
   which could compromise their quality . a total of 794 egg images were used
   in the study , comprising two different classes : damaged and not damaged (
   intact ) eggs . four different deep learning models based on convolutional
   neural networks were employed : googlenet , visual geometry group ( vgg )
   -19 , mobilenet v2 , and residual network ( resnet ) -50. googlenet achieved
   a classification accuracy of 98.73 % , vgg 19 achieved 97.45 % , mobilenet
   v2 achieved 97.47 % , and resnet 50 achieved 96.84 % . according to the
   results , the googlenet model performed the damage detection with the
   highest accuracy rate ( 98.73 % ) . this study encompasses artificial
   intelligence and deep learning techniques for the automatic detection of egg
   damage . the early detection of egg damage and accurate interventions
   highlights the significant importance of using these technologies in the
   food industry . this approach provides producers with the ability to detect
   damaged eggs more quickly and accurately , thereby minimizing product losses
   through timely intervention . additionally , the use of these technologies
   offers a more efficient means of classifying and identifying damaged eggs
   compared to traditional methods . 2025 institute of food technologists .
DE automatic detection; deep learning; egg damage; egg quality; image
   classification
ID algorithms; animals; artificial intelligence; chickens; deep learning; eggs;
   food industry; neural networks computer; quality control; algorithm; animal;
   artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; deep learning; egg; food
   industry; gallus gallus; procedures; quality control

---

UT 1325
AR Hamidy SM, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P589,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00046-1
TI Artificial intelligence and machine learning for food safety and
   traceability
AU Hamidy SM; Erik A; Kuvvetli Y; Gökşen G
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB ensuring food safety and traceability in the global food supply chain is a
   significant challenge due to complexities in regulatory compliance ,
   foodborne illness outbreaks , economic implications of recalls , and
   inefficiencies in traditional monitoring systems . artificial intelligence (
   ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) offer transformative solutions by
   automating data acquisition , enabling real time surveillance , and
   enhancing predictive analytics for risk assessment . this study explores the
   integration of ai and ml technologies in food safety applications ,
   including predictive contamination detection , blockchain enabled
   traceability , internet of things ( iot ) -based monitoring , and ai driven
   quality inspections . ai driven models improve risk management by analyzing
   historical and real time data to predict foodborne outbreaks and identify
   contamination sources efficiently . blockchain and smart iot devices further
   enhance supply chain transparency , ensuring authenticity and fraud
   prevention . the study highlights the economic and public health benefits of
   ai adoption in food safety , emphasizing the need for standardized
   regulations , interdisciplinary collaboration , and future advancements in
   explainable ai , edge ai , and personalized nutrition . by leveraging ai
   driven technologies , the food industry can significantly improve safety ,
   sustainability , and consumer confidence in food products
DE artificial intelligence in food industry; blockchain and iot in supply
   chains; food safety; food traceability; machine learning for risk assessment
ID accident prevention; blockchain; food industry; food microbiology; food
   safety; food supply; information management; internet of things; learning
   systems; machine learning; predictive analytics; regulatory compliance; risk
   management; supply chains; artificial intelligence in food industry;
   artificial intelligence learning; blockchain; blockchain and internet of
   thing in supply chain; food industries; food traceabilitys; food safety;
   machine learning for risk assessment; machine learning; risks assessments;
   risk assessment

---

UT 1326
AR Cohen Y, 2023, ANNU REV NUTR, V43, P225, DOI 10.1146/annurev-
   nutr-061121-090535
TI The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Deciphering Diet-Disease
   Relationships: Case Studies
AU Cohen Y; Valdés-Mas R; Elinav E
TC 24
SO ANNU REV NUTR
PY 2023
AB modernization of society from a rural , hunter gatherer setting into an
   urban and industrial habitat , with the associated dietary changes , has led
   to an increased prevalence of cardiometabolic and additional noncommunicable
   diseases , such as cancer , inflammatory bowel disease , and
   neurodegenerative and autoimmune disorders . however , while dietary
   sciences have been rapidly evolving to meet these challenges , validation
   and translation of experimental results into clinical practice remain
   limited for multiple reasons , including inherent ethnic , gender , and
   cultural interindividual variability , among other methodological , dietary
   reporting related , and analytical issues . recently , large clinical
   cohorts with artificial intelligence analytics have introduced new precision
   and personalized nutrition concepts that enable one to successfully bridge
   these gaps in a real life setting . in this review , we highlight selected
   examples of case studies at the intersection between diet disease research
   and artificial intelligence . we discuss their potential and challenges and
   offer an outlook toward the transformation of dietary sciences into
   individualized clinical translation
DE artificial intelligence; diet; disease; neural networks; personalized
   nutrition; precision nutrition
ID artificial intelligence; autoimmune diseases; diet; humans; industry;
   nutritional status; alternate day fasting; artificial intelligence;
   artificial neural network; biological activity; body weight; body weight
   loss; caloric restriction; cancer patient; clinical outcome; clinical
   practice; data availability; diet composition; diet restriction; diet
   therapy; dietary intake; dietary pattern; electronic health record; enteric
   feeding; follow up; food intake; gastrointestinal tract; genetic
   variability; glucose blood level; health care cost; image analysis;
   lifestyle modification; machine learning; mediterranean diet; nerve
   potential; nutritional assessment; personalized medicine; personalized
   nutrition; physical activity; processed meat; protein structure; review;
   whole grain; autoimmune disease; diet; human; industry; nutritional status

---

UT 1327
AR Kim Y/1, 2024, FOOD SCI BIOTECHNOL, V33, P2543, DOI
   10.1007/s10068-023-01507-7
TI Study of active food processing technology using computer vision and AI in
   coffee roasting
AU Kim Y/1; Lee J/2; Kim S/2
TC 12
SO FOOD SCI BIOTECHNOL
PY 2024
AB in the modern food processing industry , which is more complex than in the
   past , it is important to utilize real time computer vision for active food
   processing technology using artificial intelligence . an integrated solution
   of computer vision and deep learning ( dl ) technology provides quality
   control and optimization of food processing in complex environments with
   obstacles . in this study , coffee bean classification model ( cbcm ) made
   by machine learning ( ml ) showed excellent performance , accurately
   distinguishing coffee beans through the avoidance of obstacles and empty
   spaces inside a rotating roasting machine . cbcm achieved a maximum
   validation accuracy of 98.44 % and a minimum validation loss of 5.40 % after
   the fifth epoch . using a test dataset of 137 samples , cbcm achieved an
   accuracy of 99.27 % and a loss of 2.82 % . the developed solution using the
   cbcm was able to quantify the color change of the coffee beans during
   roasting . the korean society of food science and technology 2024 .
DE active processes; artificial intelligence; coffee roasting machine; computer
   vision; machine learning
ID deep learning; engineering education; food processing; learning systems;
   processed foods; statistical tests; active process; classification models;
   coffee beans; coffee roasting machine; food processing industry; food
   processing technology; integrated solutions; learning technology; machine
   learning; real time computer vision; computer vision

---

UT 1328
AR Kiss A, 2023, SACI - IEEE INT SYMP APPL COMPUT INTELL INFORMATICS PROC,
   P755, DOI 10.1109/SACI58269.2023.10158575
TI Food recognition using neural network on mobile device
AU Kiss A; Kovacs A
TC 1
SO SACI - IEEE INT SYMP APPL COMPUT INTELL INFORMATICS PROC
PY 2023
AB this paper presents a solution to the problem of real time food detection on
   mobile devices . the solution compares a yolov4 tiny model and a multilayer
   classification neural network ensemble as the convolutional neural network
   responsible for food detection , using mobilenetv3 for classification and
   several yolov4 tiny models capable of detecting less food in the overall
   problem . the model was trained with 40 different food categories using an
   rtx 3070 video card . results showed that the multilayer network ensemble
   performed better than a single yolov4 tiny model . the tp value was 258
   higher , the fp value was 163 lower and the fn value was 773 lower . the
   accuracy increased from 0,56 to 0,61 , the recall increased from 0,52 to
   0,70 and the f1-score also increased from 0,54 to 0,65. finally , the
   finished models were implemented on an android mobile device , and the
   application allows users to log meals and generate statistics from the saved
   data
DE calorie estimation; cnn; food detection; mobile device; object detection;
   real time
ID convolutional neural networks; multilayer neural networks; multilayers;
   calorie estimations; convolutional neural network; food detection;
   multilayer network; neural network ensemble; neural networks; objects
   detection; real- time; video cards; object detection

---

UT 1329
AR Wu S-H/1, 2024, J HOSP TOUR TECHNOL, V15, P379, DOI
   10.1108/JHTT-10-2023-0322
TI Aligning restaurants and artificial intelligence computing of food delivery
   service with product development
AU Wu S-H/1; Ku ECS
TC 10
SO J HOSP TOUR TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB purpose : this study aims to analyze how restaurants collaboration with
   mobile food delivery applications ( mfdas ) affects product development
   efficiency and argues that technological capabilities moderate relational
   ties impact the joint decision making and development efficiency of
   restaurant products . design / methodology / approach : a product
   development efficiency model was formulated using a resource based view and
   real options theory . in all , 472 samples were collected from restaurants
   collaborating with mfdas , and partial least squares structural equation
   modeling was applied to the proposed model . findings : the findings of this
   study indicate three factors are critical to the product development
   efficiency between restaurants and mfdas . restaurants must develop a strong
   connection with the latter to ensure meals are consistently served promptly
   . developers of mfdas should use artificial intelligence analysis , such as
   order records of different genders and ages or various consumption
   attributes , to collaborate with restaurants . originality / value : to the
   best of the authors knowledge , this study is one of the few that considers
   the role of mfdas as a product strategy for restaurant operations , and the
   factors the authors found can enhance restaurants product development
   efficiency . second , as strategic artificial intelligence adaptation
   changes , collaborating firms and restaurants use such applications for
   product development to help consumers identify products
DE artificial intelligence computing; food delivery service; product
   development; real options theory; resource-based view

---

UT 1330
AR Abinaya S, 2024, NONTHERMAL FOOD ENG OPER, P1, DOI 10.1002/9781119776468.ch1
TI Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Food Processing
AU Abinaya S; Panghal A; Kumar S; Kumari A; Kumar N/1; Chhikara N
TC 8
SO NONTHERMAL FOOD ENG OPER
PY 2024
AB the food processing sector holds a significant place among other business
   sectors globally that support high employability . the efficient production
   and packing of food products depend greatly on the human workforce . owing
   to the involvement of the human workforce , the food industries are not only
   unable to maintain food safety but also the demand supply chain . food is a
   basic human need . reducing food waste , streamlining the supply chain , and
   improving food delivery , logistics , and safety are imperative . the most
   efficient approach to address these problems in the food industry is through
   industrial automation . artificial intelligence ( ai ) plays a significant
   role in achieving these goals . ai is defined as a branch of study that
   mimics human thought processes , learning abilities , and knowledge storage
   systems . ai has become an integral part of technological advancements in
   the food industry in recent years as a result of growing food demands
   spurred on by a growing world population . the food industry is becoming
   more and more in need of these intelligent systems due to their versatility
   for performing tasks like food quality assessment , quality control ,
   classification of foods , food processing , and forecasting . the numerous
   applications of artificial intelligence in the food sector will grow as a
   result of ongoing technological advancements and a wider range of
   application scenarios . this chapter helps to she would light on cutting
   edge ai and its technologies in the food processing sector . the first part
   of this chapter explains what is ai , its components , techniques , and the
   ways forward its popularity in various sectors . the second part of this
   chapter provides insight into the various food processing applications of
   different ai technologies including machine learning , expert systems ,
   fuzzy logic systems , and machine vision , etc . , it also discusses their
   benefits , drawbacks , and approaches to provide guidance for choosing the
   best approaches to advance future developments related to ai and the food
   industry . furthermore , it also explains the efficiency of the use of
   combinations of two or more ai techniques to make tedious process and
   applications simple . in day to day life , the application of ai continues
   to grow because of its ability to improve waste management and maintain food
   quality , hygiene , and safety . in the future , ai significantly changes
   the food processing sector by producing more reasonable and healthier
   productivity for the growing population
DE ai; emerging technologies; expert system; food industry; food safety; fuzzy
   logic; neural networks; quality assessment

---

UT 1331
AR Rojas C, 2023, FOOD RES INT, V171, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2023.113036
TI Classification-based machine learning approaches to predict the taste of
   molecules: A review
AU Rojas C; Ballabio D; Consonni V; Suárez-Estrella D; Todeschini R
TC 37
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2023
AB the capacity to discriminate safe from dangerous compounds has played an
   important role in the evolution of species , including human beings . highly
   evolved senses such as taste receptors allow humans to navigate and survive
   in the environment through information that arrives to the brain through
   electrical pulses . specifically , taste receptors provide multiple bits of
   information about the substances that are introduced orally . these
   substances could be pleasant or not according to the taste responses that
   they trigger . tastes have been classified into basic ( sweet , bitter ,
   umami , sour and salty ) or non basic ( astringent , chilling , cooling ,
   heating , pungent ) , while some compounds are considered as multitastes ,
   taste modifiers or tasteless . classification based machine learning
   approaches are useful tools to develop predictive mathematical relationships
   in such a way as to predict the taste class of new molecules based on their
   chemical structure . this work reviews the history of multicriteria
   quantitative structure taste relationship modeling , starting from the first
   ligand based ( lb ) classifier proposed in 1980 by lemont b . kier and
   concluding with the most recent studies published in 2022
DE food informatics; machine learning; qsar models; taste chemistry; taste
   classification
ID humans; taste; taste buds; taste perception; computational chemistry;
   machine learning; molecular graphics; electrical pulse; food informatic;
   human being; machine learning approaches; machine learning; multiple bits;
   qsar model; taste chemistry; taste classification; taste receptors; human;
   physiology; taste; taste bud; molecules

---

UT 1332
AR Challamalla SD, 2024, PROC - INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN SIGNAL PROCESS ICECSP,
   DOI 10.1109/ICECSP61809.2024.10698509
TI Detection of Bacteria on Food using Deep Learning
AU Challamalla SD; Seelam K; Sanapathi VC; Donepudi L
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN SIGNAL PROCESS ICECSP
PY 2024
AB due to their large global prevalence , foodborne illnesses have a
   significant negative impact on both the social economy and public health .
   foodborne pathogens , the primary because of foodborne illnesses , are
   crucial to the management and avoidance of foodborne illnesses . however ,
   there is a limited percentage of true clinical pathogen detection in real
   life , and foodborne illnesses caused by many bacteria lack specificity in
   their clinical symptoms . our objectives were to categorize foodborne
   illness pathogens using gas sensors and machine learning techniques ,
   analyze foodborne disease case data , and choose relevant characteristics
   based on analysis findings in order to predict foodborne diseases
DE foodborne diseases; gas-sensors; machine learning
ID food chemistry; clinical symptoms; foodborne illness; foodborne pathogens;
   foodborne disease; gas-sensors; machine learning techniques; machine
   learning; pathogen detection; social economy; food microbiology

---

UT 1333
AR Yang S/2, 2024, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V72, P25340, DOI 10.1021/acs.jafc.4c05650
TI AI4ACEIP: A Computing Tool to Identify Food Peptides with High Inhibitory
   Activity for ACE by Merged Molecular Representation and Rich Intrinsic
   Sequence Information Based on an Ensemble Learning Strategy
AU Yang S/2; Ni J; Xu P
TC 0
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2024
AB hypertension is a common chronic disorder and a major risk factor for
   cardiovascular diseases . angiotensin converting enzyme ( ace ) converts
   angiotensin i to angiotensin ii , causing vasoconstriction and raising blood
   pressure . pharmacotherapy is the mainstay of traditional hypertension
   treatment , leading to various negative side effects . some food derived
   peptides can suppress ace , named aceip with fewer undesirable effects .
   therefore , it is crucial to seek strong dietary aceip to aid in
   hypertension treatment . in this article , we propose a new model called
   ai4aceip to identify aceip . ai4aceip uses a novel two layer stacked
   ensemble architecture to predict aceip relying on integrated view features
   derived from sequence , large language models , and molecular based
   information . the analysis of feature combinations reveals that four
   selected integrated feature pairs exhibit enhancing performance for
   identifying aceip . for finding meta models with strong abilities to learn
   information from integrated feature pairs , powershap , a feature selection
   method , is used to select 40 optimal feature and meta model combinations .
   compared with seven state of the art methods on the source and clear
   benchmark data sets , ai4aceip significantly outperformed by 8.47 to 20.65 %
   and 5.49 to 14.42 % for matthew s correlation coefficient . in brief ,
   ai4aceip is a reliable model for aceip prediction and is freely available at
   2024 american chemical society .
DE angiotensin-converting enzyme; ensemble learning; feature pairs; food-
   derived peptides
ID angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors; humans; machine learning;
   peptides; peptidyl-dipeptidase a; hyperthermia therapy; peptides; dipeptidyl
   carboxypeptidase; dipeptidyl carboxypeptidase inhibitor; peptide;
   angiotensin-converting enzyme; computing tools; ensemble learning; feature
   pair; food-derived peptides; inhibitory activity; meta model; metamodeling;
   molecular representations; sequence informations; chemistry; human; machine
   learning; metabolism; blood pressure

---

UT 1334
AR Ma P, 2022, FOOD CHEM, V391, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2022.133243
TI Deep learning accurately predicts food categories and nutrients based on
   ingredient statements
AU Ma P; Zhang Z/5; Li Y/3; Yu N; Sheng J; Küçük McGinty H; Wang Q/3; Ahuja JKC
TC 42
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2022
AB determining attributes such as classification , creating taxonomies and
   nutrients for foods can be a challenging and resource intensive task ,
   albeit important for a better understanding of foods . in this study , a
   novel dataset , 134 k bfpd , was collected from usda branded food products
   database with modification and labeled with three food taxonomy and nutrient
   values and became an artificial intelligence ( ai ) dataset that covered the
   largest food types to date . overall , the multi layer perceptron ( mlp )
   -tf se method obtained the highest learning efficiency for food natural
   language processing tasks using ai , which achieved up to 99 % accuracy for
   food classification and 0.98 r2 for calcium estimation ( 0.93 0.97 for
   calories , protein , sodium , total carbohydrate , total lipids , etc . ) .
   the deep learning approach has great potential to be embedded in other food
   classification and regression tasks and as an extension to other
   applications in the food and nutrient scope
DE deep learning; ingredients; nutrients; usda branded food products database
ID artificial intelligence; deep learning; food; neural networks computer;
   nutrients; deep learning; food products; natural language processing
   systems; taxonomies; deep learning; food cans; higher learning; ingredient;
   learning efficiency; multilayers perceptrons; natural languages; nutrient
   values; product database; usda branded food product database; artificial
   intelligence; food; nutrients

---

UT 1335
AR Suddul G, 2023, FOOD HUMANIT, V1, P800, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2023.07.018
TI A comparative study of deep learning methods for food classification with
   images
AU Suddul G; Seguin JFL
TC 20
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2023
AB the monitoring of food intake plays a key role in avoiding different health
   problems such as diseases , but also difficulties linked with mental and
   physical wellbeing . food monitoring consists firstly of , identifying food
   types and secondly , recommending the appropriate food for better nutrition
   . this study addresses the aspect of identifying and classifying food types
   using artificial intelligence ( ai ) through computer vision , deep learning
   and transfer learning techniques . we used a dataset containing over 16000
   food images , classified into 11 categories : bread , dairy product ,
   dessert , egg , fried food , meat , noodles / pasta , rice , seafood , soup
   , and vegetable / fruit . on average , an additional 15884 images were
   computationally generated for each experiment with data augmentation
   techniques such as rotation , shifting , shearing , zooming and flipping .
   our experiments with different convolutional neural networks ( cnn )
   demonstrate that transfer learning with the efficientnetv2 model achieved a
   significant validation accuracy of 94.5 % in classifying the different types
   of food from images . also , data augmentation contributes to deal with the
   imbalanced dataset , with the model achieving an f1-score of 94.7 % .
   together with drop out and early stopping techniques , data augmentation
   also contributes to keep the model safe from overfitting
DE computer vision; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food
   classification; food-101 dataset; food-11 dataset; transfer learning

---

UT 1336
AR Musthafa Sheriff IM, 2024, INT CONF ADV ELECTR COMPUT COMMUN SUSTAIN TECHNOL
   ICAECT, DOI 10.1109/ICAECT60202.2024.10469024
TI Integrated Blockchain-Based Agri-Food Traceability and Deep Learning for
   Profit-Optimized Supply Chain Management in Agri-Food Supply Chains
AU Musthafa Sheriff IM; Aravindhar DJ
TC 13
SO INT CONF ADV ELECTR COMPUT COMMUN SUSTAIN TECHNOL ICAECT
PY 2024
AB in agri food supply chains ( afsc ) , ensuring both agri food safety for
   consumers and increased profitability for farmers remains a complex
   challenge . the intricacies and dynamics of afsc demand effective
   traceability and management solutions that existing methods often fall short
   of providing . to address these challenges , we introduce a novel approach
   that combines blockchain technology for agri food traceability with a deep
   belief network based secure block chain management named dbcm for profit
   optimization . the proposed blockchain based afsc framework serves as the
   foundation for product traceability , offering decentralized security for
   agri food tracing data within afsc . this secure and transparent platform
   ensures that consumers can trust the safety and origin of the products they
   purchase , while farmers can leverage it to increase their profit margins .
   for enhancing the security an advanced hybrid cryptographic mechanism named
   heds ( homomorphic encryption with digital ring signatures ) . the objective
   of the data based decision making with hierarchical ensemble decision
   support ( dbcm with heds ) method that has been proposed is to arrive at
   safe data driven decisions concerning the manufacturing and warehousing of
   agri food products . by optimizing these operations , it facilitates higher
   profits for farmers . unlike traditional methods , the dbcm heds employs
   advanced machine learning techniques to adapt to the dynamic nature of afsc
   , resulting in improved profit margins . the effectiveness of our blockchain
   based framework is rigorously evaluated through extensive simulation
   experiments conducted in various afsc environments . furthermore , the dbcm
   heds method consistently outperforms traditional methods , consistently
   delivering higher product profits . this innovative combination of
   blockchain technology and deep belief network offers a promising solution to
   the intricate challenges faced by agri food supply chains , benefiting both
   consumers and farmers
DE agri-food supply chains; blockchain management; deep belief network; digital
   signatures; ho-momorphic encryption; ring signatures
ID agriculture; cryptography; decision making; decision support systems; deep
   learning; food safety; food supply; learning systems; network security;
   profitability; supply chain management; agri-food supply chains; blockchain
   management; blockchain; chain management; deep belief networks; food
   traceabilitys; ho-momorphic encryptions; homomorphic-encryptions; profit
   margin; ring signatures; blockchain

---

UT 1337
AR Philp M, 2022, J BUS RES, V149, P736, DOI 10.1016/j.jbusres.2022.05.078
TI Predicting social media engagement with computer vision: An examination of
   food marketing on Instagram
AU Philp M; Jacobson J; Pancer E
TC 66
SO J BUS RES
PY 2022
AB in a crowded social media marketplace , restaurants often try to stand out
   by showcasing elaborate ' instagrammable ' foods . using an image
   classification machine learning algorithm ( google vision ai ) on
   restaurants instagram posts , this study analyzes how the visual
   characteristics of product offerings ( i . e . , their food ) relate to
   social media engagement . results demonstrate that food images that are more
   confidently evaluated by google vision ai ( a proxy for food typicality )
   are positively associated with engagement ( likes and comments ) . a follow
   up experiment shows that exposure to typical appearing foods elevates
   positive affect , suggesting they are easier to mentally process , which
   drives engagement . therefore , contrary to conventional social media
   practices and food industry trends , the more typical a food appears , the
   more social media engagement it receives . using google vision ai to
   identify what product offerings receive engagement presents an accessible
   method for marketers to understand their industry and inform their social
   media marketing strategies
DE consumer engagement; food; google vision ai; machine learning; processing
   fluency; social media marketing

---

UT 1338
AR Kousik AM, 2024, J INNOV IMAGE PROCESS, V6, P262, DOI
   10.36548/jiip.2024.3.004
TI Food Calories Generator through Deep Learning
AU Kousik AM; Naveen Manikandan MK; Pradeep T
TC 0
SO J INNOV IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2024
AB identifying food and calculating calories are key components of encouraging
   good eating habits and controlling dietary intake . these days , it is
   easier to create smart systems that can recognize food items from images or
   videos and calculate their calorie content using artificial intelligence ,
   computer vision , and machine learning . this study gives an overview of the
   latest methods and tools for calorie counting and food identification . it
   looks at the challenges of accurately identifying different foods ,
   including complex dishes and foods from various cuisines , and addresses the
   variables taken into account when determining the calorie content of food
   items , including ingredient composition , portion size , and nutritional
   makeup . to enhance user experience and enable comprehensive calorie
   tracking , it explores real time processing capabilities , user friendly
   interfaces , and integration with other health and fitness platforms .
   additionally , it provides a list of potential recipes . the interface
   developed in the proposed system is currently trained to identify and
   provide the calories of 100 food items , including basic food items , fruits
   , vegetables , and processed foods . the research work uses a real time
   dataset for training and employs software such as yolov8 , and tensorflow
   for practical implementation . 2024 inventive research organization .
DE artificial intelligence; calorie counting; computer vision; food
   identification; machine learning

---

UT 1339
AR Ansari Ghojghar M, 2023, NIVAR, V47, P48, DOI
   10.30467/nivar.2023.413016.1259
TI Investigating the relationship between drought parameters and food security
   using data mining methods (case study: Alborz province)
AU Ansari Ghojghar M
TC 0
SO NIVAR
PY 2023
AB nowadays , due to the increase in population and the ever increasing need
   for food , providing food security is considered one of the essential
   requirements in every region . on the other hand , the recent droughts are
   one of the main reasons for the instability in food security and food
   production in different regions of the world . the purpose of this research
   is to select a superior model in order to measure the relationship between
   drought parameters and food security in alborz province . therefore , from
   the data related to precipitation and temperature in order to calculate spei
   meteorological drought index , as well as the data related to the cultivated
   area and tonnage ( tons per hectare ) of the two strategic products of wheat
   and barley , which provide more than 43 % of the province s food . it was
   used in a period of 21 years ( 1380-1400 ) . four methods of spearman , ann
   , anfis and m5 were used to investigate the relationship between drought and
   food security parameters in alborz province . the results showed that in
   taleghan and karaj , the goodness of fit criteria of r2 , rmse and mae of
   spearman , ann , anfis and m5 methods were from 0.752 to 0.736 , 0.242 to
   0.217 , 0.107 to 114 respectively . 0.847 to 0.837 , 0.209 to 0.253 , and
   0.107 to 0.111 are variable . also , among the algorithms used , the m5
   decision tree method was the best model for measuring the correlation
   between drought variables and food security . so , r2 , rmse and mae of the
   mentioned model from taleghan city to karaj city varies from 0.736 , 0.217
   and 0.114 to 0.837 , 0.253 and 0.111. also , in the absence of the decision
   tree model , the adaptive fuzzy neural inference system is the best method
   among the used models . due to the fact that the decision tree model has
   less amount of calculations and coding , and as a result , the costs of the
   mentioned model are higher than the adaptive fuzzy neural inference system ,
   so it is preferable to use the decision tree model in measuring the
   relationship between drought and food security parameters . also , among the
   models used to measure the relationship between drought and food security
   parameters , spearman s method was less accurate than the methods of fuzzy
   adaptive neural inference system , artificial neural network and decision
   tree model . but another remarkable thing that is true about the spearman
   method is the type of linear relationship and the simple performance of this
   method compared to the three mentioned models , which according to the ratio
   of benefit to cost of this method can be considered as one of the simple
   models . and it is suitable for measuring the relationship between the
   parameters of drought and food security . another result that can be deduced
   from this research is the high correlation between data related to drought
   and the yield of wheat and barley . for example , in nazarabad city ,
   despite the fact that the cultivated area of the mentioned crops had
   increased , the tonnage of wheat and barley had taken a downward trend ,
   which can be found in the recent severe droughts of alborz province . did
   due to the strong relationship between drought and food security parameters
   , it is possible to comment on the food security parameters of a region by
   having the drought information of a region , and conversely , by having the
   information related to the food basket of a region , one can talk about the
   drought indicators . and planned for the future of that area . it is also
   recommended to use the m5 decision tree model in order to measure the
   relationship between drought and food security indicators by considering
   future scenarios as a tool in food security management . the results of this
   study can be used in providing forward looking scenarios related to drought
   food security parameters . 2023 , islamic republic of iran meteorological
   organization
DE food security; m5; spei; wheat and barley

---

UT 1340
AR Manisha N, 2024, INT J WIREL MOB COMPUT, V27, P320, DOI
   10.1504/IJWMC.2024.142100
TI BEFA: bald eagle firefly algorithm enabled deep recurrent neural network-
   based food quality prediction using dairy products
AU Manisha N; Jagadeeshwar M
TC 0
SO INT J WIREL MOB COMPUT
PY 2024
AB food quality is defined as a collection of properties that differentiate
   each unit and influences acceptability degree of food by users or consumers
   . owing to the nature of food , food quality prediction is highly
   significant after specific periods of storage or before use by consumers .
   however , the accuracy is the major problem in the existing methods . hence
   , this paper presents a befa_drnn approach for accurate food quality
   prediction using dairy products . firstly , input data is fed to data
   normalization phase , which is performed by min max normalization .
   thereafter , normalized data is given to feature fusion phase that is
   conducted employing dnn with canberra distance . then , fused data is
   subjected to data augmentation stage , which is carried out utilizing
   oversampling technique . finally , food quality prediction is done wherein
   milk is graded employing drnn . the training of drnn is executed by proposed
   befa that is a combination of bes and fa . additionally , befa_drnn obtained
   maximum accuracy , tpr and tnr values of 93.6 % , 92.5 % and 90.7 %
DE bald eagle search algorithm; bes; deep neural network; deep recurrent neural
   network; dnn; drnn; firefly algorithm; min-max normalization
ID bald eagle search algorithm; bald eagles; bes; dnn; drnn; firefly
   algorithms; min-max normalizations; neural networks; search algorithms

---

UT 1341
AR Chummun PG, 2024, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V833, P163, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-8346-9_14
TI Advancements in Machine Learning and Computer Vision Approaches for Food and
   Nutrient Recognition from Images: A Survey
AU Chummun PG; Suddul G; Armoogum S
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2024
AB along with physical activity and exercise , maintaining a nutritious diet is
   crucial to preventing obesity and a number of illnesses like diabetes ,
   stroke , and cardiovascular diseases . the development of solutions for the
   automatic monitoring of dietary intake has been made possible by recent
   advancements in machine learning applications for computer vision . they
   contribute in providing a seamless approach to track daily food consumption
   and regulate eating patterns with improved precision as compared to
   conventional systems which rely mainly on manual input . this survey
   examines modern vision based algorithms based on machine learning used in
   autonomous dietary evaluation and presents their performance , usability as
   well as the limitations and obstacles which are yet to be solved
DE computer vision; food recognition; machine learning
ID computer vision; diseases; food supply; nutrition; petroleum reservoir
   evaluation; automatic monitoring; cardiovascular disease; conventional
   systems; dietary intakes; food consumption; food recognition; machine
   learning applications; machine learning; physical activity; physical
   exercise; machine learning

---

UT 1342
AR Dani R, 2022, AIP CONF PROC, V2481, DOI 10.1063/5.0103741
TI Opportunities and Challenges in Implementation of Artificial Intelligence in
   Food & Beverage Service Industry
AU Dani R; Rawal YS; Bagchi P; Khan M
TC 16
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2022
AB the 21st century has seen numerous improvements in the field of technology ,
   the most exciting being development of artificial intelligence . artificial
   intelligence is used in each and every field today with food and beverage
   being witness to various changes it has brought . despite its young years ,
   ai has made big inroads in food and beverage service industry has helped
   food processors come up with innovative ways to not just process but also in
   packaging and even delivering the finished product to the customer . this
   research will try and ascertain the various ways the food and beverage
   industry has reacted to the introduction of artificial intelligence . from
   food production to food processing , the food industry is witnessing a major
   shift in the ways it deals with customers and other businesses . the present
   study attempts to explain various facets of the prevalent artificial
   intelligence that are appropriate for hospitality related activities . this
   will help one to understand that if the power of artificial intelligence can
   be used in restaurants . this exploratory study analyzes the secondary data
   and different literature accessible in research . ai has been successfully
   used in many sections in restaurants such as recommendation and suggestion
   engine , chatbot , robot , kiosks , integrated purchasing and inventory ,
   biometrics etc . it is not only meeting with the increased demand and pace
   of artificial intelligence but also helping reshape the food and beverage
   industry and customer behavior . undoubtedly , the application of artificial
   intelligence has continuously boosted the industry but still many people are
   unaware of the potentials that it posses . 2022 american institute of
   physics inc .
DE artificial intelligence; food  and  beverage industry; implementation

---

UT 1343
AR Adak A, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11142019
TI Unboxing Deep Learning Model of Food Delivery Service Reviews Using
   Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) Technique
AU Adak A; Pradhan B; Shukla N; Alamri A
TC 38
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB the demand for food delivery services ( fdss ) during the covid 19 crisis
   has been fueled by consumers who prefer to order meals online and have it
   delivered to their door than to wait at a restaurant . since many
   restaurants moved online and joined fdss such as uber eats , menulog , and
   deliveroo , customer reviews on internet platforms have become a valuable
   source of information about a company s performance . fds organizations
   strive to collect customer complaints and effectively utilize the
   information to identify improvements needed to enhance customer satisfaction
   . however , only a few customer opinions are addressed because of the large
   amount of customer feedback data and lack of customer service consultants .
   organizations can use artificial intelligence ( ai ) instead of relying on
   customer service experts and find solutions on their own to save money as
   opposed to reading each review . based on the literature , deep learning (
   dl ) methods have shown remarkable results in obtaining better accuracy when
   working with large datasets in other domains , but lack explainability in
   their model . rapid research on explainable ai ( xai ) to explain
   predictions made by opaque models looks promising but remains to be explored
   in the fds domain . this study conducted a sentiment analysis by comparing
   simple and hybrid dl techniques ( lstm , bi lstm , bi gru lstm cnn ) in the
   fds domain and explained the predictions using shapley additive explanations
   ( shap ) and local interpretable model agnostic explanations ( lime ) . the
   dl models were trained and tested on the customer review dataset extracted
   from the productreview website . results showed that the lstm , bi lstm and
   bi gru lstm cnn models achieved an accuracy of 96.07 % , 95.85 % and 96.33 %
   , respectively . the model should exhibit fewer false negatives because fds
   organizations aim to identify and address each and every customer complaint
   . the lstm model was chosen over the other two dl models , bi lstm and bi
   gru lstm cnn , due to its lower rate of false negatives . xai techniques ,
   such as shap and lime , revealed the feature contribution of the words used
   toward positive and negative sentiments , which were used to validate the
   model
DE deep learning; explainable ai; food delivery service; lime; sentiment
   analysis; shapley

---

UT 1344
AR Cai W, 2024, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V45, P11, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20240103-032
TI Research Progress on the Application of Machine Learning in Predicting Food
   Flavor; [机器学习在预测食品风味中的研究进展]
AU Cai W; Feng T; Song S; Yao L; Sun M/1; Wang H/5; Yu C; Liu Q
TC 3
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2024
AB food flavor plays an important role in people s life . traditional methods
   for flavor analysis and detection have limited ability to predict food
   flavor . in recent years , many researchers have used machine learning
   models to effectively process food flavor information and establish
   classification and prediction models , making flavor prediction more
   accurate and efficient . the principles of traditional and novel machine
   learning methods , such as support vector machine ( svm ) , random forest (
   rf ) , k nearest neighbor ( k nn ) , and neural network , as well as recent
   progress on their combined application with flavor analysis instruments and
   molecular structure analysis for food flavor prediction are reviewed ,
   aiming to provide new ideas for the application of machine learning models
   in food flavor analysis and prediction . it is found that machine learning
   models can be used to predict the impacts of different substance components
   on food flavor , identify the flavor characteristics of foods from different
   regions . the combination of multiple machine learning models can improve
   the accuracy and reliability of prediction , and promote in depth research
   and development of food flavor . 2024 chinese chamber of commerce
DE flavor detection; food flavor; machine learning; molecular structure;
   prediction
ID classification ( of information ); forestry; learning systems; machine
   components; molecular structure; nearest neighbor search; support vector
   machines; classification models; flavor detection; flavor analysis; food
   flavors; machine learning methods; machine learning models; machine
   learning; model-making; prediction modeling; processes foods; forecasting

---

UT 1345
AR Peerzade M, 2024, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2037, P3, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-58604-0_1
TI Calorie Measurement and Food Recognition Using Machine Learning
AU Peerzade M
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2024
AB this paper proposes a novel approach leveraging machine learning for
   accurate calorie estimation and food recognition . the system employs
   computer vision techniques to identify and classify food items from images ,
   utilizing convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) trained on diverse food
   datasets . subsequently , it integrates this recognition with nutritional
   databases to estimate calorie content based on portion sizes and ingredients
   . k nearest neighbor , vgg16 model , and image processing are used to
   enhance accuracy in recognizing various food items and their nutritional
   composition . the system aims to provide a user friendly interface for
   individuals to track dietary intake , promote healthier eating habits , and
   facilitate more precise nutritional analysis . experimental results
   demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed method in accurately identifying
   and quantifying food items , enabling more efficient and reliable calorie
   measurement for dietary management and health monitoring
DE convolutional neural network ( cnn ); food recognition; k-nearest neighbor
   model; vgg16 model
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; image
   enhancement; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; nutrition; calorie
   estimations; computer vision techniques; content-based; convolutional neural
   network; food recognition; k-nearest neighbor models; machine learning;
   nearest-neighbour; vgg16 model; convolution

---

UT 1346
AR Li S/2, 2023, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P34, DOI 10.1145/3608367.3608375
TI An Overview of Artificial Intelligence Applications in Food Cold Chain
   Transportation
AU Li S/2; Zhou Y/4; Zhang Y/6; Zhang Z/1
TC 4
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2023
AB in recent years , the rising income level of the population and the young
   consumer force brought about a continuous improvement and upgrading of the
   diet structure and rapid growth of the food cold chain logistics market .
   however , frequent outbreaks of food quality and safety issues have raised
   consumer concerns . as the key link of cold chain logistics , cold chain
   transportation has a direct and important impact on the freshness of food
   and even food safety . facing the current situation of imperfect food cold
   chain transportation systems , it is necessary to make full use of
   artificial intelligence algorithms and convenient framework platforms in
   order to reduce food loss rates , strengthen transportation efficiency and
   improve customer satisfaction . in this paper , we study and summarize the
   application of artificial intelligence in cold chain transportation , and
   optimize the path planning problem of cold chain logistics delivery vehicles
   by using the bee colony algorithm . the environmental monitoring system and
   cold chain precise regulation cloud platform are used in the transportation
   process to monitor the external environment and guarantee the quality of
   food transportation . in the scheduling of cold chain transportation
   vehicles , the optimized ant colony algorithm is used to resolve the vehicle
   scheduling problem . the problem of specific vehicle search directionality
   from the scheduling source point to the target point of the logistics center
   is included in the optimization consideration , which will greatly improve
   the vehicle scheduling time and distance efficiency . the combination of
   artificial intelligence technology in cold chain transportation can reduce
   the average 10 % of human and material resources and effectively improve the
   quality of transported food , thus reducing transportation costs and food
   loss and ensuring food safety and sustainable development
DE algorithm optimization; artificial intelligence; cold chain; food
   transportation
ID ant colony optimization; customer satisfaction; efficiency; environmental
   regulations; food safety; genetic algorithms; materials handling; motion
   planning; vehicles; algorithms optimizations; cold chain; cold chain
   logistics; continuous improvements; food cold chains; food loss; food
   transportation; food safety; income levels; young consumers; population
   statistics

---

UT 1347
AR Zhang Y/15, 2023, PROC CONF COMPUT SCI INTELL SYST FEDCSIS, P823, DOI
   10.15439/2023F3643
TI Analysis of the Impact of Data Augmentation on the Performance of Deep
   Learning Models in Multispectral Food Authenticity Identification
AU Zhang Y/15; Yilmaz A; Popa M; Brewster C
TC 2
SO PROC CONF COMPUT SCI INTELL SYST FEDCSIS
PY 2023
AB food authenticity is a significant concern in the meat industry , demanding
   effective detection methods . this study explores the use of multispectral
   imaging ( msi ) and deep learning for meat adulteration detection . we
   evaluate different deep learning models using transfer learning and
   preprocessing techniques in a multi level adulteration classification task .
   in addition , we propose a novel approach called one band mixed augmentation
   for band selection in msi data , which outperforms traditional reflectance
   based feature selection and enhances model robustness . furthermore ,
   employing the ninecrop approach for dataset augmentation improved the
   accuracy from 0.63 to 0.74 for densenet201 model without transfer learning .
   this research contributes to advancing food safety assessment practices and
   provides insights into the application of deep learning for preventing food
   adulteration . the proposed one band mixed augmentation approach offers a
   novel strategy for handling band selection challenges in msi data analysis .
   2023 polish information processing society .
ID authentication; information systems; information use; learning systems;
   authenticity identifications; bands selections; data augmentation; food
   authenticity; learning models; meat industry; multispectral; multispectral
   imaging data; performance; transfer learning; deep learning

---

UT 1348
AR Puttero S, 2024, PROCEDIA CIRP, V122, P533, DOI 10.1016/j.procir.2024.01.078
TI Improved quality control and sustainability in food production by machine
   learning
AU Puttero S; Verna E; Genta G; Galetto M
TC 9
SO PROCEDIA CIRP
PY 2024
AB in recent years , the food industry has faced a number of complex challenges
   related to both quality control and sustainability . ensuring consumer
   safety and satisfaction remains a cornerstone of the food industry ,
   supported by stringent standards that address the risks of contamination and
   spoilage . however , variability in raw materials , processing techniques
   and storage conditions are just some of the factors that affect quality in
   the food industry . to manage this high variability , it is essential to
   analyze the production process and factors that most influence food quality
   , aiming to predict and minimize food waste , thereby ensuring a sustainable
   process . this convergence of quality control and sustainability goals
   provides fertile ground for machine learning applications . by improving
   defect detection , process optimization , resource allocation and predictive
   maintenance , these models help to improve product quality and reduce
   environmental impact . this article aims to explore the various applications
   of machine learning models in the food industry , where the variability of
   raw materials and the difficulty of controlling production and environmental
   factors challenge the use of traditional methods . the quality control and
   sustainability of an industrial corn cakes production process is used as a
   case study
DE food industry; machine learning; quality control; sustainable manufacturing
ID accident prevention; environmental impact; food storage; machine learning;
   optimization; quality assurance; spoilage; sustainable development; consumer
   safety; consumer satisfactions; food industries; food production; machine
   learning; production factors; production process; risk of contamination;
   stringent standards; sustainable manufacturing; quality control

---

UT 1349
AR Suneela M, 2024, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT61001.2024.10725324
TI Enhancing Dietary Monitoring using Deep Learning: Food Recognition and
   Calorie Estimation
AU Suneela M; Sahithi M; Vamsi N; Naik NB; Chowdary NS
TC 4
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2024
AB the project enhancing dietary monitoring using deep learning : food
   recognition and calorie estimation introduces an innovative method aimed at
   improving dietary tracking and fostering healthier eating habits . by
   employing cutting edge deep learning techniques , its core objective is to
   precisely identify various food items and rapidly estimate their caloric
   content , offering users advanced and personalized monitoring capabilities .
   utilizing the python programming language alongside the mobilenet
   architecture model , the project underwent rigorous training and evaluation
   using the expansive food 101 dataset , comprising 37,046 food images
   distributed across 101 distinct classes . notably , the model demonstrated
   exceptional performance , achieving a training accuracy of 97.02 % and a
   validation accuracy of 98.17 % , highlighting the efficacy of this approach
   in accurately categorizing a wide array of food items . this system provides
   users with several crucial functionalities . furthermore , it furnishes
   users with essential insights by estimating the caloric content of
   recognized foods , facilitating effective monitoring of dietary intake . the
   intelligent diet monitoring capabilities enabled by food recognition and
   calorie estimation empower users to make informed choices regarding their
   dietary preferences . through the continuous tracking and analysis of their
   daily food consumption , users can glean valuable insights into their
   nutritional habits , set personalized goals , and make necessary adjustments
   to achieve a well balanced and healthy diet . enhancing dietary monitoring
   using deep learning : food recognition and calorie estimation stands as a
   prominent illustration of successful implementation of deep learning
   techniques , particularly with the utilization of the mobilenet architecture
   , for food recognition and calorie estimation . with its remarkable accuracy
   , real time processing capabilities , and intelligent monitoring features ,
   this project has the potential to revolutionize how individuals track and
   manage their dietary habits , thereby promoting healthier lifestyles and
   overall well being
DE convolutional neural network ( cnn ) algorithm; datasets; mobilenet
   architecture; web application

---

UT 1350
AR Veena N, 2024, ENTERTAIN COMPUT, V50, DOI 10.1016/j.entcom.2024.100664
TI An Optimized Recurrent Neural Network for re-modernize food dining bowls and
   estimating food capacity from images
AU Veena N; Prasad M; Aruna Deepthi S; Swaroopa Rani B; Nayak M; Someshwar S
TC 2
SO ENTERTAIN COMPUT
PY 2024
AB maintaining health and preventing chronic diseases requires awareness of the
   energy and nutrient content of one s diet . due to the rapid development of
   computing and artificial intelligence ( ai ) technology , nutritional
   evaluation can be performed using smartphones or wearable food images .
   thechallenges of this technology include estimating the visual estimation of
   the amount of food in a bowl . we describe an innovative approach for
   determining a bowl s dimensions by sticking a paper ruler throughout the
   bottom and edges yet photographing the outcome . we used a variety of
   colored liquids , bowls and crystallized foods to evaluate the precision of
   our technique for measuring food volume employing spherical bowls as boxes .
   different food related datasets can have other numbers of images , types of
   food dining bowls and estimated food capacity from the images represented .
   image preprocessing using a wiener filter enhances the estimating of food
   dining bowl capacity from images . following preprocessing , a threshold
   based approach to image segmentation is used for the resulting data .
   finally , we used the gradient lion swarm optimized discrete recurrent
   neural network ( glso drnn ) model to present an ai based multi dish food
   identification approach . an excellent map = 0.96 was found between the
   results . the suggested model shows great promise as a means of improving
   dish reporting because of its high classification performance . the glso
   drnn performed better to proving its flexibility and efficient discrete
   parameter optimization . in addition to offering accurate food quantity
   estimates , it demonstrated significant potential for other uses in the
   field of smart dining technology . the results highlight an effective of
   this advanced computational method that is improving food dining bowls and
   interactions with components associated with food . in the future , we plan
   to improve the techniques performance and incorporate our technology into a
   working smartphone based on the cloud environment
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); bowls; foods; gradient lion-swarm optimized
   discrete recurrent neural network ( glso-drnn )
ID image enhancement; image segmentation; nutrition; smartphones; wearable
   technology; artificial intelligence; artificial intelligence technologies;
   bowl; chronic disease; energy content; food image; gradient lion-swarm
   optimized discrete recurrent neural network; nutrient contents; nutritional
   evaluations; smart phones; recurrent neural networks

---

UT 1351
AR Nawoya S, 2024, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V216, DOI
   10.1016/j.compag.2023.108503
TI Computer vision and deep learning in insects for food and feed production: A
   review
AU Nawoya S; Ssemakula F; Akol R; Geissmann Q; Karstoft H; Bjerge K; Mwikirize
   C; Katumba A; Gebreyesus G
TC 55
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2024
AB commercial insect production is a relatively new field that has gained
   traction in recent years due to its potential as a sustainable source of
   protein . despite its promising future , the industry is still in its
   infancy , and there is much room for improvement in terms of production
   efficiency . to achieve this , it is essential to implement advanced
   technologies that can aid in process management . recent progress in fields
   such as computer vision ( cv ) and machine learning has opened up numerous
   possibilities within insect rearing , encompassing automatic detection ,
   identification , classification , as well as monitoring and tracking . these
   applications find relevance in automating insect production processes ,
   ensuring insect product quality as well as environmental monitoring and
   control . the primary objective of this article is to highlight the
   potential of cv and deep learning ( dl ) in the domain of insect production
   for food and feed . it provides an in depth overview of the key developments
   in this domain , shedding light on both challenges and opportunities . the
   article also presents various systems , accompanied by real world examples
   and recent advancements , including the integration of machine learning . in
   conclusion , the article underscores the substantial potential of cv and
   machine learning to enhance the efficiency and productivity of insect
   production while identifying areas that warrant further research to advance
   the insect production sector
DE computer vision; deep learning; insects for food  and  feed; phenotyping;
   selective breeding
ID deep learning; learning systems; production efficiency; advanced technology;
   deep learning; in-process; insect for food  and  feed; machine learning;
   phenotyping; process management; production efficiency; selective breeding;
   vision learning; commercial activity; computer vision; food industry; food
   production; insect; literature review; machine learning; phenotype;
   selective breeding; computer vision

---

UT 1352
AR Krutik R, 2024, INT CONF ELECTR ENG AUTOM CONTROL ICEEAC, DOI
   10.1109/ICEEAC61226.2024.10576416
TI Advancements in Food Recognition: A Comprehensive Review of Deep Learning-
   Based Automated Food Item Identification
AU Krutik R; Thacker C; Adhvaryu R
TC 4
SO INT CONF ELECTR ENG AUTOM CONTROL ICEEAC
PY 2024
AB food recognition is a vital component of various applications , including
   dietary monitoring , nutritional analysis , and restaurant menu optimization
   . in recent years , deep learning techniques have shown remarkable promise
   in automating the process of food item identification from images ,
   significantly improving accuracy and efficiency . this review paper provides
   a comprehensive overview of the advancements in food recognition using deep
   learning , offering insights into the evolution of techniques and datasets
   employed in this domain . the paper begins by discussing the motivations
   behind automated food recognition , highlighting its significance in
   addressing health related concerns and improving food related services . it
   then delves into the fundamental concepts of deep learning and its relevance
   to image based food recognition , providing readers with a solid foundation
   for understanding the subsequent sections . a major focus of this review is
   the analysis of state of the art deep learning architectures and
   methodologies employed in food recognition . furthermore , the review
   presents an extensive survey of publicly available food image datasets ,
   evaluating their suitability for training and benchmarking deep learning
   models . it concludes by highlighting key research gaps and suggesting
   potential directions for future advancements in this rapidly evolving field
DE deep learning; dietary assessment; food recognition; ingredient recognition;
   transfer learning
ID deep learning; learning systems; nutrition; deep learning; dietary
   assessments; food recognition; fundamental concepts; image-based; ingredient
   recognition; learning techniques; optimizations; review papers; transfer
   learning; image enhancement

---

UT 1353
AR Zhang H/1, 2023, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V6, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2023.100468
TI Analysis of public opinion on food safety in Greater China with big data and
   machine learning
AU Zhang H/1; Zhang D/4; Wei Z; Li Y/6; Wu S; Mao Z; He C/1; Ma H; Zeng X; Xie
   X; Kou X; Zhang B/2
TC 38
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2023
AB the internet contains a wealth of public opinion on food safety , including
   views on food adulteration , food borne diseases , agricultural pollution ,
   irregular food distribution , and food production issues . to systematically
   collect and analyze public opinion on food safety in greater china , we
   developed ifoodcloud , which automatically collects data from more than
   3,100 public sources . meanwhile , we constructed sentiment classification
   models using multiple lexicon based and machine learning based algorithms
   integrated with ifoodcloud that provide an unprecedented rapid means of
   understanding the public sentiment toward specific food safety incidents .
   our best model s f1 score achieved 0.9737 , demonstrating its great
   predictive ability and robustness . using ifoodcloud , we analyzed public
   sentiment on food safety in greater china and the changing trend of public
   opinion at the early stage of the 2019 coronavirus disease pandemic ,
   demonstrating the potential of big data and machine learning for promoting
   risk communication and decision making
DE big data; deep learning; food informatics; machine learning; natural
   language processing
ID article; big data; china; classification; classification algorithm;
   controlled study; coronavirinae; decision making; deep learning;
   epidemiological data; food safety; food informatics; human; information
   science; interpersonal communication; learning algorithm; lexicon based
   sentiment classification; long short-term memory network; machine learning;
   multilayer perceptron; natural language processing; pandemic; public
   opinion; risk factor; sentiment classification; storage; support vector
   machine

---

UT 1354
AR Nugraheni E, 2023, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT CONTROL INFORMATICS APPL EXPLOR
   POWER DATA LEVERAGING DRIVE DIGIT INNOV IC3INA, P25, DOI
   10.1109/IC3INA60834.2023.10285754
TI Revealing Indonesian Netizens' Sentiments Towards Halal Food: A Machine
   Learning Approach
AU Nugraheni E; Arisal A; Riswantini D; Sihombing A; Parlina A; Anto IAF
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT CONTROL INFORMATICS APPL EXPLOR POWER DATA LEVERAGING
   DRIVE DIGIT INNOV IC3INA
PY 2023
AB social media has become a prevalent platform for communication and
   information dissemination in various domains . in particular , the
   exponential surge in user generated content on social media has opened up
   new possibilities for opinion mining , making it a valuable tool for
   analyzing consumer behavior . understanding public sentiments toward halal
   food is of paramount importance for stakeholders and decision makers in the
   food industry . this paper presents an investigation into the sentiments of
   social media users in indonesia concerning halal food related . we obtained
   a halal food dataset consisting of 123,385 tweets after data preprocessing .
   to extract meaningful features from textual data , we explore two
   vectorization techniques , namely countvectorizer and tfidfvectorizer .
   leveraging these feature representations , we employ various machine
   learning algorithms , including naive bayes , logistic regression , random
   forest , support vector machine , adaboost , xgboost , multi layer
   perceptron , and convolutional neural network models . our performance
   evaluation is based on key metrics like accuracy , precision , recall , and
   f1-score . the results show that the xgboost model with countvectorizer in
   sentiment analysis produces the highest accuracy with a value of 0.8269.
   several topics were derived from both sentiments based on the frequency of
   words generated , including the halal industry , emotions and feelings ,
   food ingredients and menus
DE halal food; halal industry; machine learning; public sentiment; social media
ID adaptive boosting; convolutional neural networks; decision making;
   information dissemination; learning systems; logistic regression; random
   forests; sentiment analysis; social networking ( online ); support vector
   regression; exponentials; halal food; halal industries; machine learning
   approaches; machine learning; netizen; opinion mining; public sentiments;
   social media; user-generated; multilayer neural networks

---

UT 1355
AR Estrella Condor JD, 2023, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1837 CCIS, P257, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-35445-8_19
TI Performance Analysis of Machine Learning for Food Fraud Prediction
AU Estrella Condor JD; Pérez FAF
TC 4
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2023
AB food fraud is the set of practices based on adulteration , intentional
   manipulation of food or counterfeiting , which are carried out to obtain an
   economic benefit . they are considered criminal actions , as they are
   punishable by law , are harmful to society and are morally reprehensible .
   one of the solutions to prevent the entry of fraudulent foods is their early
   detection . the study focuses on identifying two types of offenses , either
   the presence of improper sanitary certifications in a food or verifying
   whether the product belongs to an illegal or unauthorized import . to
   achieve this objective , the rasff ( rapid alert system for food and feed )
   data set will be used , which is a system where the european union food and
   feed control authorities exchange information on the different risks that
   have been detected . the use of information from the rasff model can be
   useful for predicting the type of fraud they are committing . several
   techniques already implemented will be used to compare the results . naive
   bayes model , logistic regression , multilayer perceptron , decision tree ,
   random forest and svm . the best model was the multilayer perceptron
DE fraud food; machine learning; rasff
ID bayesian networks; crime; information use; logistic regression; multilayer
   neural networks; multilayers; support vector machines; alert systems;
   dataset; economic benefits; european union; food and feed controls; fraud
   food; machine learning; multilayers perceptrons; performances analysis;
   rapid alert system for food and feed; decision trees

---

UT 1356
AR Chhetri KB, 2024, FOOD ENG REV, V16, P1, DOI 10.1007/s12393-023-09363-1
TI Applications of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Food Quality
   Control and Safety Assessment
AU Chhetri KB
TC 184
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2024
AB to ensure food safety and uphold high standards , the food business must
   overcome significant obstacles . in recent years , promising answers to
   these issues have emerged in the form of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning ( ml ) . this thorough review paper analyzes the various
   uses of ai and ml in food quality management and safety evaluation ,
   offering insightful information for academics , business people and
   legislators . the evaluation highlights the value of food quality assessment
   and control in consideration of growing consumer demand and regulatory
   scrutiny . the powerful capabilities of ai and ml are touted as having the
   potential to revolutionize these procedures . this study illustrates the
   numerous uses of ai and ml in food quality management through an in depth
   exploration of these technologies . defect detection and consistency
   evaluation are made possible using computer vision techniques , and
   intelligent data analysis and real time monitoring are made possible by
   natural language processing . deep learning techniques also provide reliable
   approaches for pattern recognition and anomaly detection , thus maintaining
   consistency in quality across manufacturing batches . this review emphasizes
   the efficiency of ai and ml in detecting dangerous microorganisms ,
   allergies and chemical pollutants with regard to food safety evaluation .
   consumer health risks are reduced because of the rapid identification of
   safety issues made possible by integrating data from diverse sources ,
   including sensors and iot devices . the assessment discusses issues and
   restrictions related to the application of ai and ml in the food business
   while appreciating the impressive progress that has been made . continuous
   efforts are being made to improve model interpretability and reduce biases ,
   which calls for careful evaluation of data quality , quantity and privacy
   issues . to assure compliance with food safety norms and regulations , the
   article also covers regulatory approval and validation of ai generated
   outcomes . the revolutionary potential of ai and ml in raising food industry
   standards and preserving public health is highlighted on future perspectives
   that concentrate on new trends and potential innovations . this
   comprehensive review reveals that the integration of ai and ml technologies
   in food quality control and safety not only enhances efficiency , minimizes
   risks and ensures regulatory compliance but also heralds a new era of
   personalized nutrition , autonomous monitoring and global collaboration ,
   signifying a transformative paradigm in the food industry
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision; deep learning; food quality
   control; food safety assessment; machine learning
ID accident prevention; anomaly detection; computer vision; deep learning;
   efficiency; health risks; learning algorithms; learning systems; natural
   language processing systems; quality control; regulatory compliance;
   artificial intelligence learning; deep learning; food business; food
   quality; food quality controls; food safety assessment; food safety; machine
   learning; quality safety; safety assessments; food safety

---

UT 1357
AR Cui X, 2024, FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V4, DOI 10.3389/frfst.2024.1491396
TI Simulation of granular flows and machine learning in food processing
AU Cui X; Adebayo D; Zhang H/2; Howarth M; Anderson A; Olopade T; Salami K;
   Farooq S
TC 4
SO FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB granular materials are widely encountered in food processing , but
   understanding their behavior and movement mechanisms remains in the early
   stages of research . in this paper , we present our recent modeling and
   simulation work on chute granular flow using both the discrete element
   method ( dem ) and continuum method . based on the simulation data , we
   apply machine learning techniques such as random forest , linear regression
   , and ridge regression to evaluate the effectiveness of these models in
   predicting granular flow patterns . the granular materials in our study
   consist of soft sphere particles with a 1 mm diameter , driven by gravity as
   they flow down a chute inclined relative to the horizontal plane . our dem
   and continuum simulation results show good agreement in modeling the chute
   flow , and the machine learning approach demonstrates promising potential
   for predicting flow patterns . the results of this chute flow study can
   provide a benchmark solution for more complex flow problems involving
   factors such as particle shape , size , interparticle interactions , and
   external obstacles
DE continuum; dem; food processing pacs; granular flows; machine learning;
   random forest

---

UT 1358
AR Dai J/2, 2023, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V82, P25615, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-023-14373-6
TI The multi-learning for food analyses in computer vision: a survey
AU Dai J/2; Hu X/2; Li M/3; Li Y/10; Du S
TC 5
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2023
AB with the rapid development of food production and health management ,
   analyzes of food samples have been essential for preventing diseases and
   understanding human culture . recently , food analyzes have become
   increasingly complex and are not limited in food categorization . they also
   contain many advanced tasks ( e . g . , nutrition estimation and recipe
   retrieval ) . from existing works , two points can be concluded . first ,
   food features are much more comprehensive and sophisticated than general
   samples . second , for food analyzes , multiple learning strategies ( mlss )
   usually achieve outperformance over general deep learning methods . however
   , there are few survey papers reporting food analyzes with mlss , and the
   main factors lead to difficulty of operation . therefore , we intend to
   conduct a survey for applications of mlss to food analyzes . in this survey
   paper , three types of common mlss , which are multi task learning ( mtl ) ,
   multi view learning ( mvl ) and multi scale learning ( msl ) strategies ,
   are presented in terms of their guidance , typical works , algorithms and
   final aggregation methods . additionally , food characteristics are proposed
   to be closely related to the difficulty of food analyzes . we
   comprehensively conclude food characteristics as nonrigid , complex in
   arrangement , and large ( small ) in intraclass ( interclass ) variance .
   moreover , some experimental results of mlss are also presented and analyzed
   in this paper . based on these results , insightful suggestions for mlss
   implementation are proposed . finally , the promising tendency of mlss
   applications in the future is discussed
DE computer vision; food analyzes; multi-learning; multi-scale learning ( msl
   ); multi-task learning ( mtl ); multi-view learning ( mvl )
ID deep learning; learning systems; linearization; food analysis; food
   production; learning strategy; multi-learning; multi-scale learning; multi-
   scales; multi-task learning; multi-view learning; multi-task learning;
   computer vision

---

UT 1359
AR Senapati D, 2025, INT CONF GENER GREEN EMERG TECHNOL GIET, DOI
   10.1109/GIET65294.2025.11234748
TI Personalized Exercise and Diet Recommendation Using Machine Learning and
   Deep Learning
AU Senapati D; Panda RK; Senapati R; Biswasaray SK; Panigrahi R; Padhy N
TC 2
SO INT CONF GENER GREEN EMERG TECHNOL GIET
PY 2025
AB maintaining a balanced diet and exercise routine is crucial for overall well
   being , yet personalized recommendations remain challenging due to
   individual variations in fitness goals and health conditions . this study
   presents an intelligent exercise and diet recommendation system leveraging
   ml and dl techniques to provide personalized fitness guidance . the system
   considers user specific attributes such as sex , age , height , weight ,
   fitness goals and pre existing health conditions to generate tailored
   exercise and diet plans . various ml algorithms including decision tree ,
   random forest , svm , knn , xgboost and adaboost along with dl architectures
   such as rnn , cnn , lstm and fcnn were trained and evaluated using multi
   label classification techniques . evaluation of model effectiveness involved
   computing key metrics like precision , recall , accuracy , fl score ,
   jaccard similarity score and hamming loss . among all models evaluated .
   decision tree was the most reliable for exercise recommendation and lstm
   proved most effective for diet planning . to validate generalizability ,
   cross validation techniques and the friedman ranking test were employed ,
   confirming the effectiveness of tree based models for exercise prediction
   and deep learning models for dietary planning
DE deep learning; exercise  and  diet recommendation; machine learning; multi-
   label classification; personalized fitness recommendations
ID classification ( of information ); decision trees; information systems;
   intelligent systems; learning systems; nutrition; random forests;
   recommender systems; balanced diet; deep learning; diet plan; exercise  and
   diet recommendation; health condition; machine learning; multi-label
   classifications; personalized fitness recommendation; personalized
   recommendation; well being; deep learning

---

UT 1360
AR Yarde P, 2023, INT CONF INNOV MECH IND APPL ICIMIA - PROC, P1551, DOI
   10.1109/ICIMIA60377.2023.10426548
TI A Deep Learning Neural Network-based System for Food Recognition and Calorie
   Estimation
AU Yarde P; Bordoloi D; Chavan RM; Vekariya V; Patil H; Natrayan L
TC 1
SO INT CONF INNOV MECH IND APPL ICIMIA - PROC
PY 2023
AB the global increase in health awareness reflects a rising desire among
   individuals to pursue healthy and normal lives . obesity has emerged as an
   important health issue in the modern world due to its rapid pace . obesity
   is defined by medical authorities as having a body mass index ( bmi ) of
   more than 30 kg / m2 , which can lead to a variety of health difficulties
   like liver failure , cholesterol , respiratory disorders , diabetes ,
   cardiac complications , and , in serious cases , cancer . maintaining a diet
   rich in nutrients and low in calories is critical in the fight against
   obesity . individuals , on the other hand , frequently struggle with food
   decisions . in response to this difficulty , this research presents a system
   that offers calorific calculation followed by food recognition to aid in
   preventing obesity . the goal of this research is to identify types of food
   and estimate their calorific values . for food recognition , a novel
   attention based dilated convolutional neural network logistic regression ( a
   cnnlr ) model is introduced and compared to a traditional cnn model . the
   proposed acnnlr model demonstrates a recognition rate of 99 % , surpassing
   the cnn model s 97 % . the study determines the calories in the food
   according to their volume using data from the ecust food dataset . this
   study provides a novel approach to the fight against obesity by using
   sophisticated algorithms for precise food detection and calorie estimation
DE accuracy; augmentation; calorie; deep learning; food; neural network
ID convolutional neural networks; deep learning; accuracy; augmentation;
   calorie; calorie estimations; cnn models; deep learning; health awareness;
   learning neural networks; network-based systems; neural networks; nutrition

---

UT 1361
AR Ma Y, 2023, J FOOD ENG, V339, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2022.111277
TI Improving 3D food printing performance using computer vision and feedforward
   nozzle motion control
AU Ma Y; Potappel J; Chauhan A; Schutyser MAI; Boom RM; Zhang L/7
TC 54
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2023
AB 3d food printing is an emerging technology to customize food designs and
   produce personalized foods . food printing materials are diverse in
   rheological properties , which makes reliable extrusion based 3d printing
   with constant printing parameters a challenge . food printing often suffers
   from improper extrusion because of the varying elasticity of the food
   materials . in this study , a computer vision ( cv ) -based method is
   developed to measure the instant extrusion rate and width under constant
   extrusion pressure / force . the measured extrusion rate and extruded
   filament width were used to conduct a feedforward control of nozzle motion
   for a pneumatic 3d food printer . as a result , the cv based control method
   improves extrusion line accuracy to 97.6100 % and prevents under extrusion
   of white chocolate spread , cookie dough , and processed cheese . the method
   can also be used to customize filament width with less than 8 % of deviation
   from the target . with a simple measurement setup and a user friendly
   software interface , this cv based method is deployable to most food
   printing applications to reduce trial and error experiments when printing a
   new food material
DE 3d food printing; computer vision; die-swell; food rheology; optical flow
ID 3d printers; application programs; extrusion; optical flows; 3d food
   printing; die-swell; emerging technologies; extrusion rates; feedforward;
   filament widths; food materials; food rheology; printing performance; vision
   based methods; computer vision

---

UT 1362
AR Liu J, 2024, ADV FOOD NUTR RES, V111, P35, DOI 10.1016/bs.afnr.2024.06.009
TI Frontiers of machine learning in smart food safety
AU Liu J; Bensimon J; Lu X
TC 0
SO ADV FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2024
AB integration of machine learning ( ml ) technologies into the realm of smart
   food safety represents a rapidly evolving field with significant potential
   to transform the management and assurance of food quality and safety . this
   chapter will discuss the capabilities of ml across different segments of the
   food supply chain , encompassing pre harvest agricultural activities to post
   harvest processes and delivery to the consumers . three specific examples of
   applying cutting edge ml to advance food science are detailed in this
   chapter , including its use to improve beer flavor , using natural language
   processing to predict food safety incidents , and leveraging social media to
   detect foodborne disease outbreaks . despite advances in both theory and
   practice , application of ml to smart food safety still suffers from issues
   such as data availability , model reliability , and transparency . solving
   these problems can help realize the full potential of ml in food safety .
   development of ml in smart food safety is also driven by social and industry
   impacts . the improvement and implementation of legal policies brings both
   opportunities and challenges . the future of smart food safety lies in the
   strategic implementation of ml technologies , navigating social and industry
   impacts , and adapting to regulatory changes in the ai era
DE deep learning; foodborne illness; machine learning; smart food safety;
   supply chain management
ID food safety; foodborne diseases; humans; machine learning; food poisoning;
   food safety; human; machine learning; prevention and control

---

UT 1363
AR Ojukwu M, 2024, INNOV ENG FOOD SCI, P299, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-0819-6.ch012
TI Recent advances in the utilisation of artificial intelligence in the food
   industry
AU Ojukwu M; Ofoedu CE; Osuji CM; Aja OO
TC 3
SO INNOV ENG FOOD SCI
PY 2024
AB global population growth raises food security concerns . ai , like computer
   vision and ml , revolutionizes agriculture . it monitors crop health ,
   predicts yields , and automates tasks . mobile apps diagnose crop diseases
   swiftly , boosting productivity . ai driven machine vision improves food
   processing by flaw identification and quality control . ai sorting enhances
   item classification , increasing productivity . in beer production , ai
   ensures fermentation quality . it optimizes distribution , predicts demand ,
   and reduces waste . ai detects contaminants for food safety . chatbots offer
   personalized recommendations . data privacy and ethics matter , requiring
   explainable ai ( xai ) and legal frameworks must be addressed despite these
   advancements . ai promises a secure , efficient , and sustainable food
   ecosystem

---

UT 1364
AR Nassibi N, 2022, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P690, DOI 10.1145/3584202.3584307
TI A Proposed Demand Forecasting Model by Using Machine Learning for Food
   Industry
AU Nassibi N; Fasihuddin H; Hsairi L
TC 7
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2022
AB demand forecasting is one of the biggest challenges in supply chain
   management , especially in the food industry , due to the various variables
   that affect people s needs , continuous changes in prices , and overall
   economic factors . many variables affect product sales and demands , such as
   promotional offers , seasons , holidays , and cultural events , among many
   others . despite the difficulty , supply chain processes can be enhanced by
   using machine learning , which typically produces better predictions than
   conventional approaches . this paper proposes a model to improve demand
   forecasting accuracy for the food industry . more specifically , the model
   focuses on chocolate products , using data from a local chocolate
   distributor in saudi arabia . the proposed model will take data from sales
   at normal times of the year and promotional sales , in holiday times for
   example , and use cutting edge machine learning techniques to accurately
   forecast supply and demand levels in the chocolate industry
DE demand forecasting; food industry; machine learning; management; product
   sales; supply chain
ID forecasting; machine learning; supply chain management; conventional
   approach; cultural events; demand forecasting; economic factors; food
   industries; forecasting models; machine learning; product demand; product
   sales; supply chain process; sales

---

UT 1365
AR Chun M, 2024, JMIR FORM RES, V8, DOI 10.2196/55342
TI A Deep Learning–Based Rotten Food Recognition App for Older Adults:
   Development and Usability Study
AU Chun M; Yu H-J; Jung H/1
TC 3
SO JMIR FORM RES
PY 2024
AB background : older adults are at greater risk of eating rotten fruits and of
   getting food poisoning because cognitive function declines as they age ,
   making it difficult to distinguish rotten fruits . to address this problem ,
   researchers have developed and evaluated various tools to detect rotten food
   items in various ways . nevertheless , little is known about how to create
   an app to detect rotten food items to support older adults at a risk of
   health problems from eating rotten food items . objective : this study aimed
   to ( 1 ) create a smartphone app that enables older adults to take a picture
   of food items with a camera and classifies the fruit as rotten or not rotten
   for older adults and ( 2 ) evaluate the usability of the app and the
   perceptions of older adults about the app . methods : we developed a
   smartphone app that supports older adults in determining whether the 3
   fruits selected for this study ( apple , banana , and orange ) were fresh
   enough to eat . we used several residual deep networks to check whether the
   fruit photos collected were of fresh fruit . we recruited healthy older
   adults aged over 65 years ( n=15 , 57.7 % , males and n=11 , 42.3 % ,
   females ) as participants . we evaluated the usability of the app and the
   participants perceptions about the app through surveys and interviews . we
   analyzed the survey responses , including an after scenario questionnaire ,
   as evaluation indicators of the usability of the app and collected
   qualitative data from the interviewees for in depth analysis of the survey
   responses . results : the participants were satisfied with using an app to
   determine whether a fruit is fresh by taking a picture of the fruit but are
   reluctant to use the paid version of the app . the survey results revealed
   that the participants tended to use the app efficiently to take pictures of
   fruits and determine their freshness . the qualitative data analysis on app
   usability and participants perceptions about the app revealed that they
   found the app simple and easy to use , they had no difficulty taking
   pictures , and they found the app interface visually satisfactory .
   conclusions : this study suggests the possibility of developing an app that
   supports older adults in identifying rotten food items effectively and
   efficiently . future work to make the app distinguish the freshness of
   various food items other than the 3 fruits selected still remains . minki
   chun , ha jin yu , hyunggu jung .
DE acceptance; adoption; aged; aging; aging; app; application; applications;
   apps; artificial intelligence; attitude; attitudes; camera; classification;
   deep learning; design; develop; development; digital health; digital sensor;
   elder; elderly; experience; experiences; food; foods; fruit; fruits;
   geriatric; geriatrics; gerontology; image; imaging; machine learning;
   mhealth; mobile health; older adult; older adults; older people; older
   person; opinion; opinions; perception; perceptions; perspective;
   perspectives; photo; photograph; photographs; photos; picture; pictures;
   recognition; sensor; sensors; smartphone; smartphones; usability

---

UT 1366
AR Anwar H, 2023, BIOSENS BIOELECTRON X, V14, DOI 10.1016/j.biosx.2023.100365
TI Review on food quality assessment using machine learning and electronic nose
   system
AU Anwar H; Anwar T; Murtaza S
TC 87
SO BIOSENS BIOELECTRON X
PY 2023
AB quality evaluation in the food industry presents a significant challenge due
   to the necessity for high cost equipment and extensive analysis to ensure
   that products reaching consumers are safe and of the highest quality .
   existing technologies often require substantial resources , trained
   personnel , and complex analytical procedures , creating a demand for rapid
   , cost effective solutions . electronic nose technology is an emerging
   approach capable of detecting and differentiating between various aromas
   through an array of electronic sensors , demonstrating promising results
   when applied to diverse food items . machine learning algorithms play a
   crucial role in analyzing the complex data collected by electronic nose
   systems , enabling accurate identification and assessment of food based on
   different odors . this review explores the combination of e nose systems
   with machine learning algorithms , proposing a powerful nondestructive tool
   for food quality assessment . by integrating advanced data processing
   techniques with e nose technology , this novel approach has shown the
   potential in overcoming traditional limitations related to subjectivity and
   time consuming analysis procedures . furthermore , the integration of
   electronic noses with machine learning applications is examined across key
   food categories such as meat , dairy , edible oil , fish , tea , and coffee
   products . various case studies are presented to highlight the efficacy of
   this innovative method in addressing specific quality concerns within these
   sectors
DE adulteration; food quality assessment; machine learning; sensors
ID cost benefit analysis; data handling; e-learning; electronic nose; learning
   algorithms; machine learning; odors; oils and fats; quality control; edible
   oil; milk fat; adulteration; electronic nose systems; food industries; food
   quality; food quality assessment; high costs; machine learning algorithms;
   machine learning; quality assessment; quality evaluation; aroma; artificial
   intelligence; artificial neural network; chicken meat; coffee; consumer;
   convolutional neural network; cost effectiveness analysis; cryopreservation;
   dairy product; discriminant analysis; food industry; food quality; human;
   k-nearest neighbor; learning algorithm; logistic regression analysis;
   machine learning; mass fragmentography; odor; principal component analysis;
   quality control; questionnaire; random forest; review; sea food; sensory
   evaluation; support vector machine; systematic review; tea; validation
   process; vegetable; cost effectiveness

---

UT 1367
AR Uçuk C, 2023, IMPACTFUL TECHNOL TRANSFORM FOOD IND, P98, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-9094-5.ch007
TI The use of artificial intelligence in recipe development: How technology is
   changing the way we create and innovate in the kitchen
AU Uçuk C; Dogdubay M; Özdemir SS
TC 3
SO IMPACTFUL TECHNOL TRANSFORM FOOD IND
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is rapidly reshaping recipe development by
   creating new recipes , enhancing existing ones , and providing personalized
   recommendations based on individual tastes . the key advantage of ai is its
   ability to swiftly generate and evaluate a large number of recipe variants ,
   enabling more efficient experimentation and discovering novel flavor
   combinations . additionally , ai s data analysis prowess allows it to
   identify patterns in ingredient combinations and cooking times for recipe
   enhancements . ai s influence extends to personalized recipe recommendations
   , where algorithms analyze culinary preferences , dietary restrictions , and
   cooking skills to offer tailored recipes , promoting culinary exploration .
   however , challenges lie in ensuring the practicality and creativity of ai
   generated recipes . in conclusion , ai s integration in recipe development
   has the potential to revolutionize cooking and eating habits , and we can
   expect further exciting advancements in this field as technology advances

---

UT 1368
AR Bagundang EP, 2024, INT SEMIN RES TECHNOL INTELL SYST ADV INTELL SYST
   CONTEMP SOC ISRITI - PROC, P74, DOI 10.1109/ISRITI64779.2024.10963526
TI Halal Food Prediction Using Long Short-Term Memory Neural Networks
AU Bagundang EP; Rael CB
TC 0
SO INT SEMIN RES TECHNOL INTELL SYST ADV INTELL SYST CONTEMP SOC ISRITI - PROC
PY 2024
AB this research investigates the application of long short term memory ( lstm
   ) neural networks to predict the halal status of food products based on the
   ingredient lists . it utilized a comprehensive data set containing 39,787
   food products , with 21,826 labeled as halal and 17,961 labeled as haram ,
   the study aimed to develop an efficient and accurate classification model .
   each product s data includes a list of ingredients and a corresponding halal
   or haram label . the lstm model was trained and evaluated on this data set ,
   achieving an impressive performance metrics . for class 0 ( halal ) , the
   model attained a precision , recall , and f1-score of 0.99 , with a support
   of 21,826 instances . similarly , for class 1 ( haram ) , the precision ,
   recall , and f1-score were also 0.99 , with a support of 17,961 instances .
   these results indicate that the model can accurately predict the halal
   status with high reliability . the overall accuracy of the model stands at
   99 % , underscoring its robustness and efficacy in handling both classes .
   this research demonstrates the potential of lstm neural networks in
   automating the halal status identification , offering a scalable solution to
   address the growing demand for halal products in the market
DE ai-based halal prediction; halal compliance automation; lstm neural
   networks; machine learning in food certification
ID neural networks; ai-based halal prediction; classification models; dataset;
   f1 scores; halal compliance automation; long short-term memory neural
   network; machine learning in food certification; machine learning; neural
   networks; short-term memory; flavors

---

UT 1369
AR Jia N, 2022, EXPERT SYS APPL, V201, DOI 10.1016/j.eswa.2022.116979
TI An attention-based convolutional neural network for recipe recommendation
AU Jia N; Chen J/4; Wang R
TC 24
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2022
AB the boom in cuisine websites has accumulated a wealth of recipe data , as
   well as interaction data between users and recipe . based on these data ,
   users can get recommendation that meet their tastes on recommendation
   algorithm . in this paper , we propose an attention based convolutional
   neural network for recipe recommendation . specifically , we use attention
   mechanism to capture users preferences for different ingredients . at the
   same time , we use multi perspectives convolution neural network to extract
   user features and recipe features at higher level . furthermore , a multi
   layer neural network is used to model the interaction between users and
   recipes according to their features . the experimental results show that our
   method achieves the better recommendation results compared with other
   traditional methods
DE attention mechanism; convolution neural network; recipe recommendation
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; network layers; attention
   mechanisms; convolution neural network; convolutional neural network; data
   users; multilayer neural networks; multi-perspective; recipe recommendation;
   recommendation algorithms; user feature; user preferences; multilayer neural
   networks

---

UT 1370
AR Narendra Kumar S, 2024, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT
   CSITSS, DOI 10.1109/CSITSS64042.2024.10817009
TI 'Machine Learning-Based Food Edibility Prediction Using Neural Networks'
AU Narendra Kumar S; Ravi KM; Arahanth M; Satheesh G; Basavaraj P
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT CSITSS
PY 2024
AB safety and the edibility of products is a must in the food industry . this
   research paper introduces a machine learning method for predicting whether
   food products can be eaten or not . a neural network model was created using
   various characteristics of the dataset including shelf life , manufacture
   date , optimum storage temperature and product type ( solid , liquid or gas
   ) to predict the edibility of a given item . the performance of the model
   was measured using accuracy , mean squared error ( mse ) , and r squared (
   r2 ) . these findings demonstrate that neural networks are effective in
   classification tasks as they offer dependable means of forecasting if food
   is unsafe to eat . [ 1 ] traditional methods have received a significant
   boost by this approach since it allows faster scalable automated predictions
   that could be integrated into larger food safety systems 2024 ieee .
DE classification; data preprocessing; food edibility; food safety; machine
   learning; neural networks; standardization
ID food chemistry; data preprocessing; food edibility; food industries; food
   safety; machine learning methods; machine learning; neural network model;
   neural networks; research papers; shelf life; shelf life

---

UT 1371
AR Seilov S, 2024, INT J ONLINE BIOMED ENG, V20, P117, DOI
   10.3991/ijoe.v20i16.52911
TI Integration of Electronic Nose and Machine Learning for Monitoring Food
   Spoilage in Storage Systems
AU Seilov S; Abildinov D; Baydeldinov M; Nurzhaubayev A; Zhursinbek B; Yue XG
TC 6
SO INT J ONLINE BIOMED ENG
PY 2024
AB the integration of sensor technology and artificial intelligence ( ai ) is
   transforming agricul ture , particularly in post harvest management . this
   study focuses on utilizing an electronic nose ( e nose ) system in
   conjunction with machine learning ( ml ) models to monitor and detect potato
   spoilage in storage environments . the e nose system , equipped with
   sensitive gas sen sors , detects volatile organic compounds ( vocs ) emitted
   by potatoes during different spoilage stages . by analyzing these emissions
   , the system can identify early signs of spoilage , offering a valuable
   solution for mitigating post harvest losses , which remain a significant
   challenge in the agricultural sector . through a series of controlled
   experiments , vocs were captured and ana lyzed using a neural network model
   , classifying the potatoes into three categories : fresh , mildly spoiled ,
   and fully spoiled . the neural network was trained on data from multisensory
   gas analy sis , achieving a high level of classification accuracy . this
   study demonstrates that the integration of e nose technology and ml
   algorithms can effectively monitor potato quality in storage , providing
   real time insights to optimize storage conditions , extend shelf life , and
   reduce wastage . 2024 by the authors of this article .
DE electronic nose ( e-nose ); gas analysis system; machine learning ( ml );
   post-harvest loss; potato spoilage; volatile organic compounds ( voc )

---

UT 1372
AR Villacis AH, 2023, GLOB FOOD SECUR, V36, DOI 10.1016/j.gfs.2023.100671
TI The role of recall periods when predicting food insecurity: A machine
   learning application in Nigeria
AU Villacis AH; Badruddoza S; Mishra AK/1; Mayorga J
TC 23
SO GLOB FOOD SECUR
PY 2023
AB defining and measuring food insecurity at the household level is critical
   for policymakers , aid agencies , and international organizations . food
   insecurity indicators , such as the food consumption score , are based on a
   given recall period , usually 7-days . still , using other indicators or
   methodologies makes surveys use different recall periods ( e . g . , 30-days
   or 12 months ) . this study uses machine learning methods and four waves of
   the nigeria lsms isa datasets to assess the implications of using different
   recall periods when predicting food insecurity measures . in addition to
   machine learning methods , the novelty of this study is the use of big data
   and relevant weather data to predict the food insecurity status of nigerian
   farming families . our results show that experience based food insecurity
   indicators , measured using a 7-days recall period , have a high
   predictability accuracy ( 78 % 90 % ) . more importantly , we find that
   predictors computed using a 7-day recall period can detect about seven out
   of ten households considered food insecure by indicators measured using a
   recall period of 30-days
DE food policy; food security; machine learning; nigeria; prediction; recall
   period; sub-saharan africa

---

UT 1373
AR Nikolola-Alexieva V, 2024, BIO WEB CONF, V102, DOI
   10.1051/bioconf/202410204002
TI Artificial intelligence in the food industry
AU Nikolola-Alexieva V; Valeva K; Pashev S
TC 8
SO BIO WEB CONF
PY 2024
AB the growth of the planet s population requires the application of innovative
   technological solutions for its nutrition . artificial intelligence , as
   part of the technological toolkit of industry 4.0 , having a strong
   transforming effect in modern society , is perceived as a strategic factor
   for increasing productivity , efficiency and innovation in a number of
   sectors , including the food industry . the global food and beverage
   artificial intelligence market in 2021 is valued at usd 4.49 billion . it is
   expected to grow at a cagr ( average annual rate ) of 45.4 % to reach us $
   83.4 billion by 2029 . the main goal of every industrial enterprise in the
   food industry is to produce high quality products at the lowest possible
   cost . the application of ai can contribute to maintaining a higher quality
   of the manufactured product , through rapid quality control and
   visualization of the result . ai can aggregate and analyze data in real time
   making recommendations to improve operational activities , can analyze data
   , uncover trends and recommend actions to increase efficiency . the result
   of the implementation of artificial intelligence in the food industry
   contributes to driving the growth of the market . the authors , published by
   edp sciences .

---

UT 1374
AR Lotfi R, 2022, SCI REP, V12, DOI 10.1038/s41598-022-26449-8
TI A robust and resilience machine learning for forecasting agri-food
   production
AU Lotfi R; Gholamrezaei A; Kadłubek M; Afshar M; Ali SS; Kheiri K
TC 28
SO SCI REP
PY 2022
AB this research proposes a new framework for agri food capacity production by
   considering resiliency and robustness and paying attention to disruption and
   risk for the first time . it is applied robust stochastic optimization by
   adding robustness to the constraint s objective function and resiliency
   situation . this research minimizes the mean absolute deviation and
   coefficient of standard deviation errors by linear function in the agri food
   capacity production . this study suggests agri food managers and decision
   makers use this mathematical method to forecast and improve production
   management . the results of this research lead to better decision making and
   are compared with other sine functions . the main model s robust and
   resiliency mean absolute deviation ( rrmad ) value is 1.28 % lower than
   other sine type functions . the conservativity coefficient , confidence
   level , weight factor , resiliency coefficient , and probability of the
   scenario vary . the main model s rrmad value is 1.28 % lower than other sine
   type functions . growing the weight factor will result in an increase in
   rrmad and a smooth decline in r squared . additionally , as the resilience
   coefficient rises , the rrmad function increases while the r squared
   declines . by altering the probability of the scenario , the rrmad function
   drops , and the r squared goes up
ID data collection; food; forecasting; machine learning; article; attention;
   decision making; food industry; forecasting; human; machine learning;
   manager; probability; stochastic model; food; forecasting; information
   processing

---

UT 1375
AR Xia X, 2024, IEEE TRANS NEURAL NETWORKS LEARN SYS, V35, P13550, DOI
   10.1109/TNNLS.2023.3269949
TI FBANet: An Effective Data Mining Method for Food Olfactory EEG Recognition
AU Xia X; Shi Y/3; Li P/4; Liu X/6; Liu J/4; Men H
TC 29
SO IEEE TRANS NEURAL NETWORKS LEARN SYS
PY 2024
AB at present , the sensory evaluation of food mostly depends on artificial
   sensory evaluation and machine perception , but artificial sensory
   evaluation is greatly interfered with by subjective factors , and machine
   perception is difficult to reflect human feelings . in this article , a
   frequency band attention network ( fbanet ) for olfactory
   electroencephalogram ( eeg ) was proposed to distinguish the difference in
   food odor . first , the olfactory eeg evoked experiment was designed to
   collect the olfactory eeg , and the preprocessing of olfactory eeg , such as
   frequency division , was completed . second , the fbanet consisted of
   frequency band feature mining and frequency band feature self attention , in
   which frequency band feature mining can effectively mine multiband features
   of olfactory eeg with different scales , and frequency band feature self
   attention can integrate the extracted multiband features and realize
   classification . finally , compared with other advanced models , the
   performance of the fbanet was evaluated . the results show that fbanet was
   better than the state of the art techniques . in conclusion , fbanet
   effectively mined the olfactory eeg data information and distinguished the
   differences between the eight food odors , which proposed a new idea for
   food sensory evaluation based on multiband olfactory eeg analysis
DE attention mechanism; deep learning; food sensory evaluation; multiband
   electroencephalogram ( eeg ) feature; odor recognition; olfactory eeg
ID adult; data mining; electroencephalography; female; food; humans; male;
   neural networks computer; odorants; olfactory perception; smell; young
   adult; data mining; deep learning; electroencephalography;
   electrophysiology; odors; fragrance; attention mechanisms; brain modeling;
   deep learning; features extraction; food sensory evaluation; multi band;
   multiband electroencephalogram feature; odor recognition; olfactory;
   olfactory electroencephalogram; adult; artificial neural network; data
   mining; electroencephalography; female; food; human; male; odor; physiology;
   procedures; smelling; young adult; sensory analysis

---

UT 1376
AR Nayak A, 2023, SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL, V1, P641, DOI 10.1039/d3fb00059a
TI A comprehensive review on CRISPR and artificial intelligence based emerging
   food packaging technology to ensure “safe food”
AU Nayak A; Dutta D
TC 22
SO SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB in the food industry , food quality and safety are vital , and in this case
   , appropriate packaging technology can significantly ensure the quality of
   food for consumers . therefore , innovation in food packaging technology is
   believed to cater to the rising global demand for food quality and safety .
   the application of crispr technology for the ultra sensitive detection of
   pathogens and food contaminants in the headspace of packaged food can be an
   emerging strategy to protect the health of consumers . consequently , crispr
   based intelligent packaging technology is likely to pave the way for the
   food industry to realize the real time surveillance of food contaminants .
   moreover , exploring the technological aspect of how deep learning empowers
   food quality inspection may facilitate global food safety and lead to a
   healthy secure environment . therefore , in this review , we illustrate
   technological advancement with regards to traceability , computing
   automation , and big data analysis , which can be an alternative approach to
   circumvent the limitations of existing packaging analytics . additionally ,
   the combination of crispr technology with interconnected disciplines may
   prompt new interest in the next generation packaging sector . 2023 rsc .

---

UT 1377
AR Divyashree D, 2024, INTERN J INTEL SYST APPL ENG, V12, P61
TI Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning Based Agri & Food Quality and
   Safety Detection System
AU Divyashree D; Abbaa SH; Chauhan Y; Paliwal MK; Pant K; Vidhate DA;
   Shrivastava A
TC 3
SO INTERN J INTEL SYST APPL ENG
PY 2024
AB deep learning , also known as dl , is a technique that has been shown to be
   effective for evaluating enormous datasets , such as those that may be found
   in the fields of image processing , speech recognition , and popularity .
   recent advancements have been made in this direction by the fields of food
   science and food engineering . no one has ever mentioned to us a similar
   study that made use of food in any capacity as a variable in the research .
   this article presents a succinct introduction to deep learning ( dl ) , in
   addition to detailed descriptions of the building of a typical convolutional
   neural network ( cnn ) , as well as the ways by which artificial
   intelligence and the internet of things convey information . we conducted a
   comprehensive literature review on the subject of deep learning as it
   relates to the identification of issues with computers that are related to
   food . some of the topics that were covered in this review include , but are
   not limited to the following : food recognition . the calculation of
   calories . fruit . potato . meat . the safety of aquatic goods . the safety
   of the food supply chain . and food infection . each inquiry assessed its
   own distinct set of problems , datasets , preparation techniques , network
   topologies , and system architectures to discover how well they functioned
   and how they stacked up against other possible solutions . this paper is an
   investigation into the use of big data to the issue of hunger , during which
   we discovered some fascinating trends . according to the findings of our
   research , dl is superior to more traditional methods of system analysis ,
   such as guided attribute extractors and classical algorithms . they have the
   potential to become the subsequent generation of food safety regulators .
   2024 , ismail saritas
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); convolutional neural network ( cnn ); deep
   learning; food safety; iot and big data

---

UT 1378
AR Li J/3, 2023, PROC - IEEE INT SYMP MULTIMED ISM, P177, DOI
   10.1109/ISM59092.2023.00032
TI Estimation of the Caloric Intake of Food Consumption Using Convolutional
   Neural Network
AU Li J/3; Abbasi B
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE INT SYMP MULTIMED ISM
PY 2023
AB dietary assessment is commonly used to monitor the calorie intake of people
   who wish to regulate their diet . traditional dietary assessments require
   participants to actively record their meals for 24 hours , followed by a
   manual assessment of calorie intake by a health professional . this approach
   is not effective for use on a daily basis , and thus can not give a
   comprehensive analysis of the participant s diet plan . new dietary
   assessment techniques are needed to make food monitoring easier and more
   feasible in a real world environment . many research works use image
   assisted or image based techniques to simplify the process and make it more
   acceptable to the participants . yet , these works generally focus on
   analyzing the main course of a meal , and the meal is usually set up in a
   laboratory setting with a simple background . while finger food plays an
   important role in diet , as it is easy to lose track of the amount consumed
   , it is a challenge for dietary assessment . as a result , estimating the
   total calorie intake of the participant is difficult . in this paper , we
   present a real time food monitoring technique that uses computer vision
   techniques to passively detect when finger food is being grabbed by
   participants during a live stream , to classify the amount of potato chips
   grabbed and give immediate feedback to the participants . two convolutional
   neural networks ( cnn ) are used for this purpose : one for detecting the
   participants hands and the other for classifying the chips according to
   calorie labels . in order to train the cnn to estimate calorie intake , we
   collected a dataset with more than 26,600 images of volunteers grabbing
   differing quantities of chips . the macro average f1 score of our models
   ranges from 0.75 to 0.88 for a 3-class system , and it ranges from 0.59 to
   0.74 for a 4-class system
DE artificial intelligence; computer vision; convolutional neural network;
   dietary assessment; real time calorie classification
ID computer vision; convolution; food supply; assessment technique;
   comprehensive analysis; convolutional neural network; diet plan; dietary
   assessments; food consumption; health professionals; real-world
   environments; real- time; real time calorie classification; convolutional
   neural networks

---

UT 1379
AR Sharma P, 2022, INT J FOOD MICROBIOL, V372, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2022.109691
TI Deciphering the blackbox of omics approaches and artificial intelligence in
   food waste transformation and mitigation
AU Sharma P; Vimal A; Vishvakarma R; Kumar P; de Souza Vandenberghe LP; Kumar
   Gaur V; Varjani S
TC 42
SO INT J FOOD MICROBIOL
PY 2022
AB it is necessary to stop the wastage of food during any stage of food chain
   to resolve the challenge of starvation , hunger and malnutrition in the
   world . inception of modern techniques like omics ( metagenomics ,
   proteomics , transcriptomics , wasteomics , diseaseomics etc ) , enzymatic
   treatments , and artificial intelligence in food waste reduction and
   management can bring a sustainable solution for food loss management ,
   starvation and environmental challenges . acceptance of modern techniques
   while policies formulation by government bodies can substantially strengthen
   the idea of waste reduction , food security and can easily save the life of
   around 25,000 children and adults dying of starvation every day . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) can bestead current agriculture and food supply chain
   system to overcome the challenges of nutrition demand , resource depletion ,
   climate change , population growth , and pollution . this communication
   provides a thorough examination of the concept of food waste management with
   omics approaches linkages . in addition , the notion of artificial
   intelligence in food waste transformation and mitigation , as well as
   present challenges and future prospects have been covered . overall , this
   communication would assist decision makers in identifying economically and
   environmentally appropriate biorefinery solutions ahead of time
DE artificial intelligence; food security; metagenomics; omics approaches;
   valorization
ID agriculture; artificial intelligence; child; food; food supply; humans;
   refuse disposal; carbohydrate; lipid; microbial enzyme; protein; article;
   artificial intelligence; domestic waste; environmental policy; food
   industry; food waste; human; nonhuman; omics; waste management; agriculture;
   catering service; child; food; waste disposal

---

UT 1380
AR [Anonymous], 2024, SCI REP, V14, DOI 10.1038/s41598-024-57077-z
TI Automated detection and recognition system for chewable food items using
   advanced deep learning models
TC 10
SO SCI REP
PY 2024
AB identifying and recognizing the food on the basis of its eating sounds is a
   challenging task , as it plays an important role in avoiding allergic foods
   , providing dietary preferences to people who are restricted to a particular
   diet , showcasing its cultural significance , etc . in this research paper ,
   the aim is to design a novel methodology that helps to identify food items
   by analyzing their eating sounds using various deep learning models . to
   achieve this objective , a system has been proposed that extracts meaningful
   features from food eating sounds with the help of signal processing
   techniques and deep learning models for classifying them into their
   respective food classes . initially , 1200 audio files for 20 food items
   labeled have been collected and visualized to find relationships between the
   sound files of different food items . later , to extract meaningful features
   , various techniques such as spectrograms , spectral rolloff , spectral
   bandwidth , and mel frequency cepstral coefficients are used for the
   cleaning of audio files as well as to capture the unique characteristics of
   different food items . in the next phase , various deep learning models like
   gru , lstm , inceptionresnetv2 , and the customized cnn model have been
   trained to learn spectral and temporal patterns in audio signals . besides
   this , the models have also been hybridized i . e . bidirectional lstm + gru
   and rnn + bidirectional lstm , and rnn + bidirectional gru to analyze their
   performance for the same labeled data in order to associate particular
   patterns of sound with their corresponding class of food item . during
   evaluation , the highest accuracy , precision , f1 score , and recall have
   been obtained by gru with 99.28 % , bidirectional lstm + gru with 97.7 % as
   well as 97.3 % , and rnn + bidirectional lstm with 97.45 % , respectively .
   the results of this study demonstrate that deep learning models have the
   potential to precisely identify foods on the basis of their sound by
   computing the best outcomes
DE audio signal processing; customized convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; eating sounds; food identification; mel-frequency cepstral
   coefficients; spectrograms
ID deep learning; food; humans; mental recall; recognition psychology; records;
   deep learning; food; human; information processing; recall; recognition

---

UT 1381
AR Zhu L-Y, 2023, J CHEM, V48, P1399, DOI 10.1039/d3nj04074g
TI Evaluation of methods for the detection of hazardous substances in food
   based on machine learning
AU Zhu L-Y; Yan L; Zhao F; Guo X/4; Xu D; Lv J; Ding L; Niu N; Qiao J-Q; Ma S;
   Huang X; Liu H/5; Lian H-Z
TC 5
SO J CHEM
PY 2023
AB with new detection methods for hazards in food being created , it is
   essential to build an evaluation model of these methods in order to improve
   the level and efficiency of food safety related detection . back propagation
   neural network ( bpnn ) , classification and regression tree ( cart ) ,
   support vector regression ( svr ) and random forest regression ( rfr ) are
   the supervised machine learning methods used to build the model . in this
   study , we used these four approaches to evaluate hazard detection methods .
   first , the factors that affect the test ( considering the accuracy ,
   efficiency and cost of the methods ) were considered , and 8 indices were
   selected to establish an evaluation index system for chemical hazards and
   biological hazards respectively . then , 727 methods related to the
   detection of chemical hazards and 91 methods related to the detection of
   biological hazards in food were analyzed , and experts were invited to score
   each method as machine learning training data . then , four machine learning
   models were used for training and verification . it turns out that for the
   detection methods of chemical hazards , the bpnn , cart and svr models
   require a shorter period of time to adjust parameters , perform better on
   the test set with great fitting ability and lower mean square error , and
   the goodness of fit is 0.969 , 0.962 and 0.988 , respectively . while for
   the detection methods of biological hazards , bpnn and svr models fit better
   with goodness of fit values of 0.988 and 0.999 , respectively , and give
   more accurate prediction . it can be concluded that bpnn and svr models
   perform well for both chemical and biological hazards detection methods ,
   which can be used as a reference for artificial selection before testing .
   2024 the royal society of chemistry .
ID backpropagation; chemical detection; chemical hazards; forestry; learning
   systems; mean square error; neural networks; supervised learning; well
   testing; backpropagation neural networks; biological hazard; classification
   trees; detection methods; hazard detection; machine learning; neural network
   classification; neural network trees; regression trees; support vector
   regression models; article; artificial selection; backpropagation neural
   network; biosafety; controlled study; dangerous goods; diagnostic test
   accuracy study; drug analysis; food safety; human; machine learning; mean
   squared error; prediction; random forest; supervised machine learning;
   support vector machine; efficiency

---

UT 1382
AR Putra NE, 2024, INT CONF INFORMATICS COMPUT ICIC, DOI
   10.1109/ICIC64337.2024.10956325
TI Object Detection Model for Indonesian Food Using Machine Learning
AU Putra NE; Raditya D; Sugianto FA; Suhartono D
TC 1
SO INT CONF INFORMATICS COMPUT ICIC
PY 2024
AB some of indonesia s biggest health problems have a direct correlation to
   obesity . because of this , it is important to raise awareness about how to
   control eating habits , one of which is the use of dietary self monitoring (
   dsm ) applications . the prediction of food classes is well documented and
   has been widely used in various dsm applications . however , the
   applications do not have sufficient data and trained models to be used to
   detect indonesian foods . this study presents a machine learning based
   approach to build an object detection model that would be able to accurately
   detect indonesian foods . the system was trained with three different
   methods of object detection , which consists of faster region based
   convolutional neural network ( r cnn ) , single shot detector ( ssd ) , and
   you only look once v5 ( yolov5 ) with thousands of images that were manually
   collected . after testing , all three models achieved good performances ,
   being able to reach a 0.7 mean average precision ( map ) .5 : .95 score
   across the board . however , one model was clearly above the others , which
   was the yolov5 . after further testing of the yolov5 model , it was then
   modified to further improve results . the modified yolov5 model then managed
   to achieve an impressive 0.811 map.5 : .95 score . in conclusion , the
   modified yolov5 model is the best fit for our dataset based on the
   performance
DE faster r-cnn; indonesian foods; object detection; ssd; yolov5
ID object detection; convolutional neural network; detection models; fast
   region-based convolutional neural network; indonesian food; machine
   learning; objects detection; region-based; single-shot; single-shot
   detector; you only look once v5; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1383
AR Ramesh AP, 2024, PROC INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST
   ICSES, DOI 10.1109/ICSES63760.2024.10910307
TI DNCS: Artificial Intelligence Enabled Food Recognition and Associated
   Calorie Level Estimation System Using Deep Neural Classification Scheme
AU Ramesh AP; Prasad O; Venkat S; Jagadeeshwaran A; Lakshmi PA; Singaravelu R
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF INNOV COMPUT INTELL COMMUN SMART ELECTR SYST ICSES
PY 2024
AB the dncs ( cascaded cnn ann ) enabled food recognition ( fr ) and associated
   calorie level estimation system presents a novel approach to food
   classification and calorie estimation using a cascaded neural network
   architecture . the system combines convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) for
   food image recognition with artificial neural networks ( ann ) for calorie
   estimation , leveraging fine tuned pre trained models such as inceptionv3
   and efficientnet . the system demonstrated high fr accuracy across various
   datasets , achieving a peak accuracy of 96.2 % for common food items like
   burgers and pizzas , with an overall accuracy range between 89.2 % and 96.2
   % . for calorie estimation , the system achieved a mean absolute error ( mae
   ) of less than 6.1 % , demonstrating reliability in predicting calorie
   content based on food portion size . the use of image segmentation
   techniques like graph cut and grabcut further enhanced the accuracy of fr .
   the system was tested for real time applications , achieving an average
   processing time of 350 to 450 milliseconds per image , making it suitable
   for integration into mobile applications . user feedback highlighted ease of
   use , speed , and accuracy as key strengths , with an overall satisfaction
   rating of 4.7 out of 5. these results suggest that the dncs system offers an
   efficient solution for dietary management through real time calorie tracking
DE ann; calorie estimation; cascaded neural networks; cnn; deep learning;
   efficientnet; food recognition; image segmentation; inceptionv3; portion
   size estimation
ID deep neural networks; image segmentation; calorie estimations; cascaded
   neural network; convolutional neural network; deep learning; efficientnet;
   food recognition; images segmentations; inceptionv3; neural networks;
   portion size estimation; size estimation; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1384
AR Zou Q, 2024, BR FOOD J, V126, P3550, DOI 10.1108/BFJ-02-2024-0135
TI An application of machine learning to classify food waste interventions from
   a food supply chain perspective
AU Zou Q; Bezuidenhout CN; Ishrat I
TC 8
SO BR FOOD J
PY 2024
AB purpose : the purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the efficacy of
   machine learning ( ml ) in managing natural language processing tasks ,
   specifically by developing two ml models to systematically classify a
   substantial number of food waste interventions . design / methodology /
   approach : a literature review was undertaken to gather global food waste
   interventions . subsequently , two ml models were designed and trained to
   classify these interventions into predefined supply chain related groups and
   intervention types . to demonstrate the use of the models , a meta analysis
   was performed to uncover patterns among the interventions . findings : the
   performance of the two classification models underscores the capabilities of
   ml in natural language processing , significantly enhancing the efficiency
   of text classification . this facilitated the rapid and effective
   classification of a large dataset consisting of 2,469 food waste
   interventions into six distinct types and assigning them to seven involved
   supply chain stakeholder groups . the meta analysis reveals the most
   dominant intervention types and the strategies most widely adopted : 672
   interventions are related to ' process and operations optimization ' , 457
   to ' awareness and behavior interventions ' and 403 to ' technological and
   engineering solutions ' . prominent stakeholder groups , including '
   processing and manufacturing ' , ' retail ' ' government and local
   authorities ' and ' ngos , charitable organizations and research and
   advocacy groups ' , are actively involved in over a thousand interventions
   each . originality / value : this study bridges a notable gap in food waste
   intervention research , a domain previously characterized by fragmentation
   and incomprehensive classification of the full range of interventions along
   the whole food supply chain . to the best of the authors knowledge , this is
   the first study to systematically classify a broad spectrum of food waste
   interventions while demonstrating ml capabilities . the study provides a
   clear , systematic framework for interventions to reduce food waste ,
   offering valuable insight for practitioners in the food system ,
   policymakers and consumers . additionally , it lays the foundation for
   future in depth research in the food waste reduction domain
DE artificial intelligence; food supply chain; food waste interventions; food
   waste reduction; machine learning; natural language processing; text
   classification model
ID advocacy group; article; artificial intelligence; awareness; catering
   service; classification; consumer; food; food waste; government; human;
   machine learning; meta analysis; natural language processing; non-
   governmental organization; whole food

---

UT 1385
AR Krishna G PG, 2023, PROC INT CONF ELECTRON RENEW SYST ICEARS, P577, DOI
   10.1109/ICEARS56392.2023.10085194
TI A Deep Learning and IoT based Food Quality Detection
AU Krishna G PG; Sravya I; Madhu Kiran B; Sai Monika Y P; Swathi K; Suneetha B
TC 3
SO PROC INT CONF ELECTRON RENEW SYST ICEARS
PY 2023
AB since it is the foundation of social development , solidness , and human
   well being , food quality , and safety are the potential challenges . since
   food is the underpinning aspect of human well being , social advancement ,
   and dependability , it is a critical challenge for society . food processing
   at all stages from development , collection , and capacity to readiness and
   utilization should be considered to guarantee food quality and well being .
   be that as it may , these techniques habitually require more work . the
   progression of machine vision can help scientists extensively in food
   processing . the internet of things and machine learning technologies play
   significant role in determining the food quality . support vector machines ,
   neural networks , deep learning and low cost cold storage based on iot were
   applied to get over the challenges of tracking food quality and quantity .
   uv sensors , a wireless sensor for food quality detection by uhf rfid
   passive tags , and a radio frequency powered sensor have all been utilized
   for monitoring the food quality . this paper discusses about different
   machine learning ( ml ) and iot based techniques and present cnn based food
   quality detection model based on the fruit dataset and finally the results
   were discussed
DE convolution neural networks ( cnn ); dnn; food quality detection; iot;
   neural networks; sensors; support vector machine ( svm )
ID cold storage; deep learning; food processing; food safety; food storage;
   internet of things; learning systems; processed foods; radio frequency
   identification ( rfid ); convolution neural network; dnn; food quality; food
   quality detection; iot; neural networks; quality detection; support vector
   machine; support vectors machine; support vector machines

---

UT 1386
AR Piccoli F, 2024, IEEE INT FORUM RES TECHNOL SOC IND INNOV RTSI - PROCEEDING,
   P208, DOI 10.1109/RTSI61910.2024.10761232
TI Efficient Deep Learning Methods for Food Localization in Canteen Trays
AU Piccoli F; Buzzelli M; Marelli D; Bianco S; Ciocca G; Schettini R
TC 0
SO IEEE INT FORUM RES TECHNOL SOC IND INNOV RTSI - PROCEEDING
PY 2024
AB this paper presents a comparative study of various efficient state of the
   art image segmentation models applied to the challenging task of food
   localization in trays in canteen environments . using the unimib2016 dataset
   , which comprises images of canteen trays with multiple food items , we
   evaluate the performance of ten deep learning based methods in terms of
   their segmentation accuracy measured by the jaccard index , and
   computational efficiency measured by multiply accumulate ( macs ) operations
   and the number of parameters . our results illustrate a tradeoff between
   computational demand and accuracy , with dabnet achieving the highest
   accuracy but at a cost of lower efficiency compared to others , while models
   like enet or edanet offer a balanced solution suitable for real time
   applications . the study not only benchmarks these models but also discusses
   the implications of different architectural choices , such as the use of
   dilated and depth wise convolutions , which influence the models performance
   . this work aims to guide the selection of appropriate segmentation models
   for dietary management systems in canteen settings , contributing to
   advancements in automated food service operations and dietary monitoring
DE can-teen automatization; food localization; industry 40; semantic
   segmentation
ID benchmarking; deep learning; arts image; can-teen automatization;
   comparatives studies; food localization; image segmentation model; learning
   methods; localization; performance; semantic segmentation; state of the art;
   semantic segmentation

---

UT 1387
AR Su Y, 2024, BMC MED, V22, DOI 10.1186/s12916-024-03602-w
TI Development and validation of machine-learning models of diet management for
   hyperphenylalaninemia: a multicenter retrospective study
AU Su Y; Wang Y/11; He J/2; Wang H/4; Xian A; Jiang H; Lu W/1; Zhou W/1; Li L
TC 1
SO BMC MED
PY 2024
AB background : assessing dietary phenylalanine ( phe ) tolerance is crucial
   for managing hyperphenylalaninemia ( hpa ) in children . however ,
   traditionally , adjusting the diet requires significant time from clinicians
   and parents . this study aims to investigate the development of a machine
   learning model that predicts a range of dietary phe intake tolerance for
   children with hpa over 10 years following diagnosis . methods : in this
   multicenter retrospective observational study , we collected the genotypes
   of phenylalanine hydroxylase ( pah ) , metabolic profiles at screening and
   diagnosis , and blood phe concentrations corresponding to dietary phe intake
   from over 10 years of follow up data for 204 children with hpa . to
   incorporate genetic information , allelic phenotype value ( apv ) was input
   for 2965 missense variants in the pah gene using a predicted apv ( papv )
   model . this model was trained on known pheno genotype relationships from
   the biopku database , utilizing 31 features . subsequently , a multiclass
   classification model was constructed and trained on a dataset featuring
   metabolic data , genetic data , and follow up data from 3177 events . the
   final model was fine tuned using tenfold validation and validated against
   three independent datasets . results : the papv model achieved a good
   predictive performance with root mean squared error ( rmse ) of 1.53 and
   2.38 on the training and test datasets , respectively . the variants that
   because amino acid changes in the region of 200300 of pah tend to exhibit
   lower papv . the final model achieved a sensitivity range of 0.77 to 0.91
   and a specificity range of 0.8 to 1 across all validation datasets .
   additional assessment metrics including positive predictive value ( 0.681 )
   , negative predictive values ( 0.80.98 ) , f1 score ( 0.710.92 ) , and
   balanced accuracy ( 0.80.92 ) demonstrated the robust performance of our
   model . conclusions : our model integrates metabolic and genetic information
   to accurately predict age specific phe tolerance , aiding in the precision
   management of patients with hpa . this study provides a potential framework
   that could be applied to other inborn errors of metabolism
DE diet management; hyperphenylalaninemia; machine learning models; pheno-
   genotype relations
ID adolescent; child; child preschool; female; genotype; humans; infant;
   machine learning; male; phenylalanine; phenylalanine hydroxylase;
   phenylketonurias; retrospective studies; genomic dna; pegvaliase;
   phenylalanine; phenylalanine 4 monooxygenase; sapropterin; phenylalanine;
   adult; aged; area under the curve; article; consanguinity; controlled study;
   data base; deep learning; diagnostic test accuracy study; diet; diet
   management; family history; female; follow up; gene mutation; genotype;
   genotyping; high throughput sequencing; human; hyperphenylalaninemia;
   immunofluorescence assay; machine learning; major clinical study; mass
   spectrometry; metabolic fingerprinting; metabolome; missense mutation;
   multicenter study; observational study; outcome assessment; phenotype;
   phenylketonuria; prediction; predictive model; predictive value; receiver
   operating characteristic; retrospective study; root mean squared error;
   sanger sequencing; sensitivity analysis; sensitivity and specificity; tandem
   mass spectrometry; training; validation study; very elderly; adolescent;
   blood; child; clinical trial; diagnosis; genetics; infant; male;
   phenylketonuria; preschool child

---

UT 1388
AR El Bhilat EM, 2024, TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG, V200, DOI
   10.1016/j.techfore.2023.123149
TI Assessing the influence of artificial intelligence on agri-food supply chain
   performance: the mediating effect of distribution network efficiency
AU El Bhilat EM; El Jaouhari A; Hamidi LS
TC 78
SO TECHNOL FORECAST SOC CHANG
PY 2024
AB the urge for greater agri food supply chain efficiency ( afsce ) has been
   gaining in prominence increasingly , spurred on by escalating logistics
   costs and advances in industry 4.0 technologies ( e . g artificial
   intelligence ai ) . the latter significant contributions in logistics have
   led academics to point their attention more to ai utility in operations
   management . drawing on dynamic capability view ( dcv ) and organizational
   information processing theories , this study aims to examine the effect of
   ai based technologies on reducing wastes and minimizing afri food supply
   chain costs , hence increasing organization profitability . it also analyzes
   how outbound logistics and distribution network efficiency ( dne ) (
   warehousing , transportation , packaging , etc . ) mediates the relationship
   between ai and afsce . this research investigates the moderating impact of
   ai adoption impediments ( aiai ) on the mediating correlation between ai ,
   dne and afsce as well . using partial least square structural equation
   modeling ( pls sem ) approach , conceptual model and hypothesis were
   analyzed and tested with 348 responses collected from executives and
   managers in the moroccan agri food industry . as a novel result ,
   distribution network efficiency and by way of mediation afsce and
   organization performance are found to be directly and positively affected by
   ai integration . the researchers find also that with more aiai , the
   relationship between the aforementioned variables weakens
DE agri-food supply chain; ai-technology; distribution logistics; efficiency;
   sem
ID morocco; artificial intelligence; costs; food supply; supply chains; agri-
   food supply chains; ai technologies; distribution logistics; logistic costs;
   mediating effect; network efficiency; on dynamics; operation management;
   supply chain efficiency; supply chain performance; artificial intelligence;
   efficiency measurement; food supply; industrial performance; industrial
   technology; logistics; supply chain management; efficiency

---

UT 1389
AR Anand L, 2024, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1056, P269, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-4892-1_23
TI Food Recognition Using Deep Learning for Recipe and Restaurant
   Recommendation
AU Anand L; Tyagi R; Mehta V
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2024
AB our project involves an interface that can identify various food items in
   real time from an image or video of multi object meals , and provide the
   user with relevant information such as recipes , ingredients , and nearby
   restaurants serving the identified dish . our work is divided into two parts
   : first , we utilize yolo v5 , an advanced object detection technique , to
   build a machine learning model with an average accuracy of over 80 % that
   can concurrently recognize and localize several items . secondly , we
   integrate our model into an interface that also includes additional features
   such as a restaurant finder and ingredient / recipe analysis . by processing
   the model output on the interface side , we can display detection results in
   real time , including the class label and bounding box position and further
   recommend the recipes or the restaurants around them that serve that cuisine
   using an api . hence , users can try new foods while also educating
   themselves about the cultures behind these cuisines
DE apis; computer vision; food detection; object detection; open cv; streamlit;
   yolo v5
ID apis; food detection; machine learning models; model outputs; multiobject;
   objects detection; open cv; real- time; streamlit; yolo v5; food ingredients

---

UT 1390
AR [Anonymous], 2023, J THEOR APPL TECHNOL, V101, P7549
TI REVOLUTIONIZING COMPUTER VISION: ENHANCED FOOD IMAGE CLASSIFICATION WITH
   SWIN TRANSFORMER AND SVM CLASSIFIER
TC 3
SO J THEOR APPL TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB this paper presents a novel approach for food image classification using a
   combination of the swin transformer model and a support vector machine ( svm
   ) classifier . the proposed method surpasses the performance of the original
   swin transformer model trained on imagenet , achieving an impressive
   accuracy of 91.05 % on the testing dataset . comparative evaluation shows
   that the svm classifier enhances the classification capabilities of the swin
   transformer , outperforming the baseline approach . the results highlight
   the efficacy of the swin transformer as a feature extraction model for food
   image classification tasks . the integration of deep learning with
   traditional machine learning techniques , as demonstrated by the svm
   classifier , shows promise for improving classification accuracy in various
   applications such as food recognition systems and dietary analysis tools .
   future work includes further optimization of the proposed method , exploring
   domain adaptation and transfer learning techniques , and investigating
   advanced fusion methods to achieve even higher classification accuracy and
   improved generalization across diverse food domains . 2023 little lion
   scientific .
DE deep learning; feature extraction; food image classification; support vector
   machine; swin transformer; vision transformer

---

UT 1391
AR Wang C, 2023, PROC IEEE RADAR CONF, V2023-May, DOI
   10.1109/RadarConf2351548.2023.10149626
TI Evaluation of Different Radar Placements for Food Intake Monitoring Using
   Deep Learning
AU Wang C; Kumar TS; De Raedt W; Camps G; Hallez H; Vanrumste B
TC 1
SO PROC IEEE RADAR CONF
PY 2023
AB automated food intake monitoring has drawn significant attention due to its
   potential applications in the healthcare domain . plenty of research ,
   including wrist worn imu based and camera based approaches , have emerged to
   detect food intake activity passively and objectively . recently ,
   researchers explored radar for food intake monitoring because of its
   contactless and privacy preserving characteristics . in this study , we
   deploy the frequency modulated continuous wave ( fmcw ) radar in three
   different positions to investigate the performance of each position in
   automated eating gesture detection . the three positions are front , side ,
   and overhead . fifteen participants are recruited to have three meals ( 45
   meals , 641 min in total ) , while the radar is deployed in different
   positions in each meal . a 3d temporal convolutional network ( 3d tcn ) is
   used to process the range doppler cube ( rd cube ) of each dataset . the
   leave one subject out ( loso ) validation method shows that putting radar in
   the front position obtains the best performance with a segmental f1-score of
   0.786 and 0.825 for eating and drinking gestures , respectively
DE deep learning; eating gesture detection; fmcw radar; food intake monitoring;
   human activity recognition
ID continuous wave radar; frequency modulation; gesture recognition; camera-
   based; deep learning; eating gesture detection; food intake; food intake
   monitoring; frequency-modulated-continuous-wave radars; gesture detections;
   healthcare domains; human activity recognition; performance; deep learning

---

UT 1392
AR Liu Z/1, 2023, FOODS, V12, DOI 10.3390/foods12061242
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Safety: A Decade Review and Bibliometric
   Analysis
AU Liu Z/1; Wang S; Zhang Y/5; Feng Y/1; Liu J/2; Zhu H
TC 149
SO FOODS
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) technologies have been powerful solutions
   used to improve food yield , quality , and nutrition , increase safety and
   traceability while decreasing resource consumption , and eliminate food
   waste . compared with several qualitative reviews on ai in food safety , we
   conducted an in depth quantitative and systematic review based on the core
   collection database of wos ( web of science ) . to discover the historical
   trajectory and identify future trends , we analyzed the literature
   concerning ai technologies in food safety from 2012 to 2022 by citespace .
   in this review , we used bibliometric methods to describe the development of
   ai in food safety , including performance analysis , science mapping , and
   network analysis by citespace . among the 1855 selected articles , china and
   the united states contributed the most literature , and the chinese academy
   of sciences released the largest number of relevant articles . among all the
   journals in this field , plos one and computers and electronics in
   agriculture ranked first and second in terms of annual publications and co
   citation frequency . the present character , hot spots , and future research
   trends of ai technologies in food safety research were determined .
   furthermore , based on our analyzes , we provide researchers , practitioners
   , and policymakers with the big picture of research on ai in food safety
   across the whole process , from precision agriculture to precision nutrition
   , through 28 enlightening articles
DE artificial intelligence; bibliometric review; citespace; food safety

---

UT 1393
AR Kavitha R, 2023, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS, P552, DOI
   10.1109/ICAISS58487.2023.10250748
TI A Novel Approach for Identification and Donation of Surplus Food using
   Machine Learning-based Replate App
AU Kavitha R; Prasad VN; Gowda VD; Umayal M; Subhiksha K; Anitha K
TC 11
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2023
AB the focus of this study is a specialized program created to precisely
   address the problem of leftover food donations from gatherings and hostels ,
   among other sources . given the prevalence of landfills , trash bins , and
   cluttered city streets , the issue of food loss is especially concerning in
   highly populated nations like india . weddings , canteens , restaurants ,
   social gatherings , and family events are just a few of the events that
   greatly contribute to the large amount of food that is wasted . the problem
   of food waste reflects more than just current economic hardships and
   environmental damage . in addition to food waste , the quick changes in
   lifestyle and high living standards have also led to waste of clothing and
   other products . it is essential to transfer these priceless resources to
   humanitarian organizations like old age homes and orphans to combat this ,
   assuring their usage rather than waste . an internet based android
   application that acts as a platform to promote effective food distribution
   is presented as a potential approach to achieving this goal
DE application; charity; donation; food waste; identification; machine learning
ID bins; current; donation; environmental damage; food loss; food waste;
   identification; large amounts; living standards; machine learning; social
   gatherings; machine learning

---

UT 1394
AR Simon P, 2023, COGN SCI TECHNOL, P531, DOI 10.1007/978-981-19-8086-2_51
TI Integrating InceptionResNetv2 Model and Machine Learning Classifiers for
   Food Texture Classification
AU Simon P; Uma V
TC 5
SO COGN SCI TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB modern agricultural revolution has enabled farmers to use artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) -based technologies resulting in improved crop yield ,
   reduction in cost and optimization of the agricultural processes . most of
   the food crops and grains are cultivated through farming and each food has
   its own characteristics , texture , color , shape , size , and granularity .
   recognizing and identifying food items is necessary for calorie and
   nutrition estimation in order to maintain healthy eating habits and good
   health . since the food items come in various textures , contents , and
   structure , it is tedious to distinguish food material . texture is a
   prominent feature usually observed in all the agricultural food grains , and
   it is difficult to classify food material without recognizing its texture .
   it is evident that texture analysis and recognition is a significant and
   vital component in agriculture based applications . the intention of the
   work is to prove the significance of the deep architecture inceptionresnetv2
   model integrated with machine learning classifiers and to assess the
   performance of the classifiers in food classification system . we tested our
   proposed model with challenging rawfoot food texture dataset with 68 classes
   using10 fold cross validation . extensive ablation study and analysis
   demonstrated an excellent accuracy of 100 % with linear discriminant
   analysis and 99.8 % with quadratic svm classifier for rawfoot dataset
DE classification; deep feature; food texture; inceptionresnet; linear
   discriminant analysis; quadratic svm

---

UT 1395
AR Kondaveeti HK, 2023, IMPACTFUL TECHNOL TRANSFORM FOOD IND, P116, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-9094-5.ch008
TI The use of artificial intelligence in the food industry: From recipe
   generation to quality control
AU Kondaveeti HK; Simhadri CG; Yasaswini GL; Shanthi GK
TC 8
SO IMPACTFUL TECHNOL TRANSFORM FOOD IND
PY 2023
AB the food industry is one of the most rapidly evolving sectors , with new
   technological advancements constantly emerging . artificial intelligence (
   ai ) has emerged as a crucial component in this industry , revolutionizing
   various aspects of food production , from recipe generation to quality
   control . in recent years , ai has been integrated into the food industry in
   a big way , and its impact on the industry has been profound . an important
   benefit of ai in the food industry is its capacity to automate monotonous
   tasks , freeing up human workers for more complex responsibilities . ai also
   aids in recipe generation , enabling food companies to create innovative
   products that cater to consumer preferences . moreover , ai plays a crucial
   role in maintaining quality control , guaranteeing that food products adhere
   to safety and quality requirements before they are delivered to consumers .
   to provide insights into the impact of ai in the food industry , this
   chapter will present case studies highlighting successful ai implementations

---

UT 1396
AR Huang L, 2024, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13104, DOI 10.1117/12.3023637
TI Study of progress on application of hyperspectral imaging combined with deep
   learning approaches in detecting foods content
AU Huang L; Huang R
TC 2
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2024
AB predicting food component content is one of the important research
   directions in the field of food science and engineering , and it is also an
   important indicator for evaluating food quality . with the increasing
   attention to food quality and safety issues , the prediction of food
   component content is of great significance for quality control in the food
   industry and food safety monitoring . traditional prediction of food
   component content is usually carried out through chemical analysis and
   physical measurement techniques , which have disadvantages such as long
   detection times and high costs , and may be influenced by environmental
   factors and sample variability . they can not meet the requirements for non
   destructive , rapid prediction of multidimensional food component content .
   therefore , the development of non destructive , rapid , and
   multidimensional detection methods is crucial . hyperspectral imaging
   technology is a non destructive , rapid , and high precision technology that
   can obtain a large amount of spectral information from food . deep learning
   , as a powerful machine learning method , has the ability to handle large
   scale data and extract complex features . with the development of
   hyperspectral imaging technology and deep learning , an increasing number of
   studies are combining the two for application in non destructive food
   detection . this paper reviews the application of hyperspectral imaging
   technology combined with deep learning in food quality analysis , including
   nutrient analysis , traceability identification and maturity assessment .
   secondly , the research progress of hyperspectral imaging technology
   combined with deep learning algorithms in data preprocessing , model
   building and evaluation is summarized to provide reference for improving the
   accuracy and efficiency of food analysis . copyright spie . downloading of
   the abstract is permitted for personal use only .
DE deep learning; food components; hyperspectral imaging technology; non-
   destructivetesting
ID accident prevention; chemical detection; deep learning; engineering
   education; food safety; hyperspectral imaging; learning algorithms; quality
   control; deep learning; food components; food engineering; food quality;
   food science; hyperspectral imaging technologies; learning approach;
   nondestructive; non-destructivetesting; science and engineering; forecasting

---

UT 1397
AR Thapa A, 2023, FOOD BIOSCI, V56, DOI 10.1016/j.fbio.2023.103231
TI A comprehensive review on artificial intelligence assisted technologies in
   food industry
AU Thapa A; Nishad S; Biswas D; Roy S
TC 61
SO FOOD BIOSCI
PY 2023
AB due to escalating food demand in tandem with the growing global population
   over the past few decades , artificial intelligence ( ai ) has been
   implemented into food business . the ability of the ai assisted systems to
   perform a variety of activities , including determining food quality ,
   providing control mechanisms , categorizing foods , and making predictions
   has increased demand for them in the food sector . in addition to ai ,
   application of sensors has also enhanced in food industry for various
   applications e . g . , freshness sensing , pathogen detection , adulteration
   detection , fragrance detection etc . currently , ai assisted sensing system
   named as intelligent systems are instigated in food industry . this
   technology fusion has a distinct potential to revolutionize the entire food
   industry by efficient food manufacturing , optimal food processing and high
   quality food production and preservation . therefore , it is necessary to
   have comprehensive information related to the latest advancements in this
   field for better understanding and future research activity . the current
   review detail about different ai technologies , advanced sensors ,
   intelligent systems , and its applications in the food industry . it also
   apprises the distinct advantages and present limitations of ai and
   intelligent systems which pave the path of enormous possibilities of future
   research and development
DE artificial intelligence; food industry; food quality; intelligent systems;
   sensors

---

UT 1398
AR Zuo M, 2024, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V24, P1, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2024.10.001
TI Advancements and Modern Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Ensuring
   Food Safety; [人工智能在食品安全中的最新应用及进展]
AU Zuo M; Ji H; Su L; Zhang Y/12; Yan W; Zhang Q/4; Kong J
TC 7
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food safety is a critical national concern , essential for promoting robust
   socio economic development and protecting human health . as the food
   industry undergoes rapid expansion and globalization intensifies at an
   unprecedented pace , the issue of food safety has become an increasingly
   pressing concern . it has become a major issue that requires an urgent
   global response . with rapid advancements in science and technology ,
   emerging technologies , notably artificial intelligence ( ai ) , are
   increasingly being utilized in the field of food safety , showing
   substantial potential and significant value . with its powerful data
   processing capability , accurate pattern recognition and predictive
   analytics , ai provides strong technical support for the prediction and
   supervision of food safety issues , effectively improving the efficiency and
   accuracy of food safety management . artificial intelligence has facilitated
   the detection of food pathogens , assessment of freshness , prediction of
   shelf life , identification of food adulteration , and issuance of food
   safety alerts . therefore , this review summarizes the research progress of
   ai in the field of food safety . firstly , the study primarily introduces
   the applications of ai in the detection of food safety risk factors , with a
   particular focus on the detection of microbial contamination in food .
   furthermore , summarizes the applications of ai in the evaluation of food
   quality and safety , including the identification of food adulteration , the
   prediction of shelf life and the verification of food label authenticity .
   additionally , the application of ai in food safety supervision is
   elaborated , including the development of an early warning system for food
   safety and the enhancement of food safety traceability technology through
   intelligent solutions . finally , the current study discusses the current
   limitations of ai applications in the field of food safety and envisions
   future prospects , aiming to provide support for safeguarding public health
   and promoting the healthy development of the food industry . 2024 chinese
   institute of food science and technology
DE artificial intelligence; food adulteration; food safety detection; food
   safety supervision; food traceability
ID food safety; food adulterations; food industries; food safety detection;
   food safety supervision; food traceabilitys; food safety; modern
   applications; safety supervision; shelf life; shelf life

---

UT 1399
AR Sapienza S, 2022, LAW GOV TECHNOL SER, V52, P123, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-09367-8_4
TI Current Trends, Machine Learning, and Food Safety Data Governance
AU Sapienza S
TC 0
SO LAW GOV TECHNOL SER
PY 2022
AB this chapter shifts from the normative perspective adopted in the previous
   sections to a broader and inclusive approach encompassing governance issues
   . in particular , emerging concerns are related to the increasingly growing
   use of artificial intelligence algorithms in the context of food safety risk
   assessment , and revolve around topics such as algorithmic transparency ,
   fairness , and explainability . following an introduction to these topics ,
   the discussion is contextualized to the domain at stake by examining the
   consequences of the use of machine learning and artificial intelligence
   algorithms in food safety risk assessment from an ethical and legal point of
   view . a closer look to the forthcoming eu data governance act provides
   insights on the use of such computational approaches in the public decison
   making and , in particular , in matters related to food safety

---

UT 1400
AR Das S, 2023, OPER MANAG RES, V16, P2104, DOI 10.1007/s12063-023-00390-z
TI Enabling artificial intelligence for sustainable food grain supply chains:
   an agri 5.0 and circular economy perspective
AU Das S; Barve A; Sahu NC; Muduli K
TC 48
SO OPER MANAG RES
PY 2023
AB the majority of the food grain supply chain ( fgsc ) is run in a linear
   fashion , requiring substantial inputs that produce mostly inedible by
   products , environmental damage and wastage . moreover , population increase
   , declining food resources , shifting weather patterns , and dwindling
   supplies pose serious problems to the fgsc . effective usage and consumption
   of resources to harmonize ecological , economic , and social elements is the
   need of the hour from the agri 5.0 and circular economy ( ce ) perspective .
   fortunately , modern technological developments like artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) might represent a paradigm change in this context . however ,
   enablers for ai adoption have not been studied sufficiently despite ai s
   popularity . hence , the fundamental objective of this research is to
   identify and examine key enablers that facilitate rapid ai adoption in fgsc
   , empowering agri 5.0 and ce in india . the primary facilitators for ai
   adoption have been explored via a literature review and expert interviews
   followed by a questionnaire survey . the fuzzy decision making trial and
   evaluation laboratory ( f dematel ) approach was then used to create a
   causal model of the identified enablers . the f dematel method helps resolve
   the uncertainty of researching enabler interactions . research findings
   suggest that ' legal and regulatory interventions from the government ( e7 )
   ' and ' green iot driven total automation ( e5 ) ' have a significant
   influence in integrating ai in fgsc . the results have major ramifications
   for policymakers . the results may be used to justify future investments and
   will also aid decision makers in india in advancing ai initiatives
DE agri 50; ai-adoption; circular economy ( ce ); food grain supply chain (
   fgsc ); fuzzy-dematel

---

UT 1401
AR Agarwal R, 2023, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V1078 LNEE, P9, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-5974-7_2
TI IndianFood-7: Detecting Indian Food Items Using Deep Learning-Based Computer
   Vision
AU Agarwal R; Bansal N; Choudhury T; Sarkar T; Ahuja NJ
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2023
AB indian food dishes are famous around the globe . object detection in an
   image is a well known task in computer vision . indian food dishes detection
   using deep learning based models will maximize the impact of computer vision
   based models in the food domain . deep learning based model usage is still
   limited in recognizing and detecting indian food items due to the lack of
   datasets on indian food . we introduce the indianfood 7 dataset , which
   contains images of more than 800 and having 1700 + annotations spreading
   beyond seven special indian food items . we report the comparative study of
   numerous variants which are having current avant grade for object detection
   models , yolor and yolov5 . furthermore , we have inspected and evaluated
   the model performance by revising the predictions verified on the images of
   the test dataset . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer
   nature singapore pte ltd 2023 .
DE computer vision; deep learning; indian food dataset; indian food dishes;
   object detection
ID computer vision; deep learning; object recognition; statistical tests;
   current; comparatives studies; deep learning; detection models; indian food
   dataset; indian food dish; learning-based models; modeling performance;
   objects detection; vision based; object detection

---

UT 1402
AR Chen W/1, 2023, PROC IEEE DATA DRIVEN CONTROL LEARN SYST CONF DDCLS, P112,
   DOI 10.1109/DDCLS58216.2023.10166792
TI A new deep learning-based food recognition system for mobile terminal
AU Chen W/1; Song R
TC 4
SO PROC IEEE DATA DRIVEN CONTROL LEARN SYST CONF DDCLS
PY 2023
AB with the improvement of people s health awareness , people pay more
   attention to their health . in recent years , the intelligent health
   management system based on food recognition technology has become popular ,
   which can help users maintain healthy eating habits . however , applying the
   current deep learning method in mobile phones and other terminal devices is
   difficult , mainly because the terminal devices have the low computing power
   and the network needs to perform many calculations during operation . in
   this paper , we have adopted the methods of parameter reconstruction and
   calculation graph fusion to reduce the network computing load so that it can
   run in real time in terminal devices , and the detection speed on snapdragon
   778g soc exceeds 7 fps . besides , experiments on the viper foodnet ( vfn )
   dataset show that our model has a high mean average precision ( map ) of
   9.17 % compared with the current advanced model
DE computer vision; deep learning; food recognition; object detection and
   mobile applications
ID computer vision; computing power; deep learning; learning systems; mobile
   telecommunication systems; current; deep learning; food recognition; health
   awareness; mobile applications; mobile terminal; object detection and mobile
   application; objects detection; recognition systems; terminal devices;
   object detection

---

UT 1403
AR Carvalho MA, 2023, J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT, V14, P16879, DOI
   10.1007/s12652-023-04703-9
TI Computer vision model for food identification in meals from the segmentation
   obtained by a set of fully convolutional networks
AU Carvalho MA; Pimenta TC; Silvério ACP; Carvalho JCS
TC 2
SO J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT
PY 2023
AB the strategy of counting the carbohydrates in consumed foods is recommended
   by scientific societies as a way to improve the quality of life of life of
   diabetes patients . monitoring food intake can be facilitated through the
   use of a mobile application that automatically recognizes the foods in a
   meal . automatically recognizing food images is considered a challenging
   task for computer vision due to the similarity between foods . this
   challenge increases when the goal is to classify foods from a specific
   region and with a dataset containing only foods from that region and
   therefore small compared to public datasets from other countries . for this
   task , this work presents a model that uses a set of fully convolutional
   networks ( fcns ) to generate segmentations of foods in a meal . these
   segmentations are processed by an algorithm that uses digital image
   processing techniques to identify the foods . the model has low training
   costs due to being scalable , that is , the model can be trained to
   recognize a new food without the need to retrain the entire model . in the
   tests , foods consumed in brazil were used , obtaining an accuracy of 98 %
   and a recall of 88 % . 2023 , the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature .
DE automatic food identification; computer vision; digital image processing;
   fcn
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; image segmentation;
   automatic food identification; convolutional networks; diabetes patients;
   food intake; fully convolutional network; mobile applications; monitoring
   foods; quality of life; scientific society; vision model; computer vision

---

UT 1404
AR Jia Z, 2024, BIOSENS BIOELECTRON, V248, DOI 10.1016/j.bios.2024.115999
TI Surveillance of pathogenic bacteria on a food matrix using machine-learning-
   enabled paper chromogenic arrays
AU Jia Z; Luo Y/1; Wang D/6; Holliday E; Sharma A; Green MM; Roche MR;
   Thompson-Witrick K; Flock G; Pearlstein AJ; Yu H; Zhang B/3
TC 30
SO BIOSENS BIOELECTRON
PY 2024
AB global food systems can benefit significantly from continuous monitoring of
   microbial food safety , a task for which tedious operations , destructive
   sampling , and the inability to monitor multiple pathogens remain
   challenging . this study reports significant improvements to a paper
   chromogenic array sensor machine learning ( pca ml ) methodology sensing
   concentrations of volatile organic compounds ( vocs ) emitted on a species
   specific basis by pathogens by streamlining dye selection , sensor
   fabrication , database construction , and machine learning and validation .
   this approach enables noncontact , time dependent , simultaneous monitoring
   of multiple pathogens ( listeria monocytogenes , salmonella , and e . coli
   o157 : h7 ) at levels as low as 1 log cfu / g with over 90 % accuracy . the
   report provides theoretical and practical frameworks demonstrating that
   chromogenic response , including limits of detection , depends on time
   integrals of voc concentrations . the paper also discusses the potential for
   implementing pca ml in the food supply chain for different food matrices and
   pathogens , with species and strain specific identification
DE detection; machine learning; paper chromogenic array sensor; pathogenic
   bacteria
ID biosensing techniques; colony count microbial; escherichia coli; food
   microbiology; listeria monocytogenes; meat; escherichia coli; food supply;
   machine learning; pathogens; volatile organic compounds; volatile organic
   compound; array sensors; continuous monitoring; destructive sampling;
   detection; food matrixes; food system; food safety; machine learning; paper
   chromogenic array sensor; pathogenic bacterium; accuracy; article; bacterial
   growth; concentration ( parameter ); controlled study; equipment design;
   escherichia coli; food chain; food contamination; food safety; limit of
   detection; listeria monocytogenes; machine learning; nonhuman; pathogen
   load; salmonella; strain identification; validation study; bacterial count;
   food control; genetic procedures; listeria monocytogenes; meat; physiology;
   supply chains

---

UT 1405
AR Caratti A, 2024, TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM, V174, DOI 10.1016/j.trac.2024.117669
TI Boosting comprehensive two-dimensional chromatography with artificial
   intelligence: Application to food-omics
AU Caratti A; Squara S; Bicchi C; Liberto E; Vincenti M; Reichenbach SE; Tao
   Q/1; Geschwender D; Alladio E; Cordero C
TC 39
SO TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM
PY 2024
AB the unceasing evolution of analytical instrumentation determines an
   exponential increase of data production , which in turn boosts new cutting
   edge analytical challenges , requiring a progressive integration of
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) algorithms into the instrumental data
   treatment software . machine learning , deep learning , and computer vision
   are the most common techniques adopted to exploit the information potential
   of advanced analytical chemistry measures . in this paper , our primary
   focus is on elucidating the remarkable advantages of leveraging ai tools for
   comprehensive two dimensional gas chromatography data ( pre ) processing .
   we illustrate how ai techniques can efficiently explore the complex datasets
   derived from multidimensional platforms combining comprehensive two
   dimensional separations with mass spectrometry in the challenging
   application area of food omics . pattern recognition based on image
   processing , computer vision , and ai smelling are discussed by introducing
   the principles of operation , reviewing available tools and software
   solutions , and illustrating their potentials and limitations through
   selected applications
DE ai; ai smelling; artificial intelligence; chromatographic fingerprinting;
   comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography; computer vision;
   foodomics; gcgc data processing; pattern recognition
ID application programs; data handling; deep learning; gas chromatography; mass
   spectrometry; omics; analytical instrumentation; artificial intelligence
   smelling; chromatographic fingerprinting; comprehensive two-dimensional
   chromatography; comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography;
   exponential increase; foodomic; gcgc; gcgc data processing; algorithm;
   artificial intelligence; automated pattern recognition; computer vision;
   data mining; deep learning; foodomics; gas chromatography; geometry; image
   processing; mass spectrometry; molecular fingerprinting; quality control;
   review; two-dimensional gas chromatography; computer vision

---

UT 1406
AR Alsaedi AWM, 2024, PROCESS, V12, DOI 10.3390/pr12112507
TI Artificial Neural Network Modeling to Predict Electrical Conductivity and
   Moisture Content of Milk During Non-Thermal Pasteurization: New Application
   of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Food Processing
AU Alsaedi AWM; Al-Hilphy AR; Al-Mousawi AJ; Gavahian M
TC 11
SO PROCESS
PY 2024
AB this study proposed applying artificial intelligence ( ai ) to predict the
   actual electrical conductivity ( ec ) of raw and pasteurized milk using
   moderate electric field ( mef ) based on the electric field strength ( efs )
   and mass flow rate ( mfr ) along with modeling moisture content ( mc ) based
   on the ec . to this end , an artificial neural network ( ann ) was
   implemented for conventionally ( cp ) and non thermally ( np ) pasteurized
   milk . the findings indicated no significant difference ( p > 0.05 ) between
   the experimental and predicted data for ec and mc . the mfr and efs affected
   the actual ec . the raw milk samples had an ec of 0.4688120.46913 s / m and
   mc of 87.321887.35941 % , while these values in np pasteurized milk were
   0.4574410.638224 s / m and 87.3398687.40851 % . with correlation
   coefficients ( r ) of 0.7364781060.951840323 and mean square errors ( mse )
   of 0.0055390.0064 , the ann accurately predicted the raw and pasteurized
   milk mc based on the ec using the sixth order polynomial model and the ec
   based on the efs and mfr using a quadratic model . the ec of pasteurized
   milk by np was significantly ( p < 0.05 ) lower than that of cp and raw milk
   by 15.44 % and 11.30 % , respectively . the results show that the efs and
   mfr might be used for the online assessment of milk s physical attributes (
   e . g . , ec ) , followed by using the assessed parameter to determine other
   properties ( e . g . , mc ) by developing ai approaches based on optimized
   models . these observations showcase the innovative use of ann based ai to
   predict milk s ec and mc accurately . integrating such ai platforms into non
   thermal food processing could eventually develop more sustainable food
   production and enhance food security and quality through process innovation
   and sustainable manufacturing , contributing to the industrial revolution
   and sustainable development goals
DE ann; dairy processing; electrical conductivity; emerging technologies; food
   production; milk; moderate electric field; moisture content; non-thermal
   technologies
ID chemical contamination; pasteurization; %moisture; dairy processing;
   electrical conductivity; emerging technologies; food production; milk;
   moderate electric field; neural networks; non-thermal technology;
   pasteurized milk; surface discharges

---

UT 1407
AR Hamdan IKA, 2022, BR FOOD J, V124, P4592, DOI 10.1108/BFJ-05-2021-0535
TI Forecasting blockchain adoption in supply chains based on machine learning:
   evidence from Palestinian food SMEs
AU Hamdan IKA; Aziguli W; Zhang D/3; Sumarliah E; Usmanova K
TC 43
SO BR FOOD J
PY 2022
AB purpose : this paper seeks to discover whether the technical ,
   organizational and technology acceptance model ( tam ) factors will
   significantly affect the adoption of blockchain technology ( about ) among
   smes . design / methodology / approach : the research employs structural
   equation modeling ( sem ) and a machine learning approach to identify
   factors influencing the about behavior that leaders can use to predict the
   prospect of the about in their enterprises . information was collected from
   255 respondents representing 166 smes in the food industry , palestine .
   findings : the analyzes reveal that the about is positively and
   significantly shaped by tam factors : ( 1 ) perceived benefits and ( 2 )
   perceived ease of using blockchain . simultaneously , the former is
   significantly influenced by compatibility and upper management support ,
   while the latter is affected by complexity . finally , education and
   training affect both factors . originality / value : this paper is among the
   first attempts to examine the about behavior in the food industry using the
   integration of sem and machine learning approach
DE adoption intention; bayesian network; blockchain; food industry; machine
   learning; palestine; smes; structural equation modeling
ID adoption; adult; article; bayesian network; blockchain; education; female;
   food industry; forecasting; human; human experiment; leadership; machine
   learning; major clinical study; male; palestine; structural equation
   modeling

---

UT 1408
AR Islam MS, 2023, INT CONF COMPUT TECHNOL ICCIT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCIT60459.2023.10441309
TI Sentiment Analysis on Bangla Food Reviews Using Machine Learning and
   Explainable NLP
AU Islam MS; Masudul Alam K
TC 15
SO INT CONF COMPUT TECHNOL ICCIT
PY 2023
AB sentiment analysis ( sa ) is a sub field of natural language processing (
   nlp ) which can extract valuable insights from textual data of a language .
   food review analysis is a trending domain of sa which become very useful as
   internet dependency has rapidly shifted people s food ordering preferences
   from restaurants to online platforms . this work focuses on examining
   various machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) algorithms for
   bangla sentimental analysis on food reviews using a new dataset of 44,491
   reviews collected from various restaurant facebook pages and groups .
   furthermore , in this study , we utilized the explainable nlp to interpret
   why a model is performing well or poor . random forest ( rf ) and
   convolutional neural network bidirectional gated recurrent unit ( cnn bigru
   ) models outperformed other models and achieved the highest accuracy of
   88.73 % and 90.96 % from ml and dl domains respectively . friedman
   statistical test was performed on the obtained results and the test results
   are significant at p < 0.05 . ' `` is the best feature that is responsible
   for the hybrid dl ( cnn bigru ) model to classify reviews more accurately
DE bi-gru; cnn; explainable nlp; food review analysis; sentiment analysis
ID bismuth compounds; convolutional neural networks; learning systems;
   recurrent neural networks; bi-gru; convolutional neural network; explainable
   natural language processing; food review analyze; language processing;
   machine learning; natural languages; sentiment analysis; sub fields; textual
   data; sentiment analysis

---

UT 1409
AR Aggarwal A, 2024, FOODS, V13, DOI 10.3390/foods13203339
TI Detection of Mycotoxin Contamination in Foods Using Artificial Intelligence:
   A Review
AU Aggarwal A; Mishra A/1; Tabassum N; Kim Y-M; Khan F
TC 42
SO FOODS
PY 2024
AB mycotoxin contamination of foods is a major concern for food safety and
   public health worldwide . the contamination of agricultural commodities
   employed by humankind with mycotoxins ( toxic secondary metabolites of fungi
   ) is a major risk to the health of the human population . common methods for
   mycotoxin detection include chromatographic separation , often combined with
   mass spectrometry ( accurate but time consuming to prepare the sample and
   requiring skilled technicians ) . artificial intelligence ( ai ) has been
   introduced as a new technique for mycotoxin detection in food , providing
   high credibility and accuracy . this review article provides an overview of
   recent studies on the use of ai methods for the discovery of mycotoxins in
   food . the new approach demonstrated that a variety of ai technologies could
   be correlated . deep learning models , machine learning algorithms , and
   neural networks were implemented to analyze elaborate datasets from
   different analytical platforms . in addition , this review focuses on the
   advancement of ai to work concomitantly with smart sensing technologies or
   other non conventional techniques such as spectroscopy , biosensors , and
   imaging techniques for rapid and less damaging mycotoxin detection . we
   question the requirement for large and diverse datasets to train ai models ,
   discuss the standardization of analytical methodologies , and discuss
   avenues for regulatory approval of ai based approaches , among other top of
   mind issues in this domain . in addition , this research provides some
   interesting use cases and real commercial applications where ai has been
   able to outperform other traditional methods in terms of sensitivity ,
   specificity , and time required . this review aims to provide insights for
   future directions in ai enabled mycotoxin detection by incorporating the
   latest research results and stressing the necessity of multidisciplinary
   collaboration among food scientists , engineers , and computer scientists .
   ultimately , the use of ai could revolutionize systems monitoring mycotoxins
   , improving food safety and safeguarding global public health
DE artificial intelligence; chromatography; deep learning; food safety;
   hyperspectral imaging; machine learning; multi-mycotoxin detection;
   mycotoxin detection; spectroscopy

---

UT 1410
AR Vimala Ithayan J, 2024, INT CONF INTEGR EMERG TECHNOL DIGIT WORLD ICIETDW,
   DOI 10.1109/ICIETDW61607.2024.10939193
TI An Individualised Diet Coach Using Ensemble Machine Learning
AU Vimala Ithayan J; Sankar M; Sivaprakash P; Dilipcharaan RM; Chithambaramani
   R; Marichamy D
TC 2
SO INT CONF INTEGR EMERG TECHNOL DIGIT WORLD ICIETDW
PY 2024
AB the personal nutritionist gui is a sophisticated diet recommendation system
   designed to utilize ensemble machine learning techniques for tailoring
   personalized meal plans based on individual health information . this
   innovative tool offers users a comprehensive and user friendly interface to
   input their specific health data , such as age , weight , dietary
   restrictions , and fitness goals . through the utilization of ensemble
   machine learning algorithms , the system analyzes this input data to
   generate precise dietary recommendations that align with the user s unique
   nutritional needs and preferences . the gui provides visual representations
   of recommended meal options , portion sizes , and nutrient breakdowns ,
   making it easy for users to track their daily intake and make informed
   decisions about their dietary choices . by integrating cutting edge
   technology with individual health profiles , the personal nutritionist gui
   empowers users to adopt healthier eating habits and achieve their wellness
   goals efficiently and effectively
DE diet recommendation system; ensemble machine learning; personalized meal
   plans; user friendly interface
ID contrastive learning; electronic health record; federated learning; diet
   recommendation system; ensemble machine learning; health data; health
   informations; machine learning algorithms; machine learning techniques;
   machine learning; personalized meal plan; plan-based; user friendly
   interface; adversarial machine learning

---

UT 1411
AR Valente FJ, 2023, WASTE FOOD RETURN NUTR FOOD CHAIN, P257, DOI
   10.3920/978-90-8686-929-9_11
TI How to optimise food production and nutrients circulation: Artificial
   intelligence & blockchainbased circular food supply chain
AU Valente FJ
TC 3
SO WASTE FOOD RETURN NUTR FOOD CHAIN
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) applications include pattern recognition ,
   events predictions , optimization and generation of recommendations , to
   name a few . ai works over data , for example , produced by different sub
   systems that comprise a food supply chain ( fsc ) , such as in farms , food
   industries , distribution centers and retail stores , collected as food
   product transactions occurrences or by sensoring tools , equipment and
   solutions across the fsc . the adoption of ai in the fsc , along with
   technologies , such as industry 4.0 , the internet of things ( iot ) , the
   gs1 labeling schemes and other emergent technologies , such as blockchain ,
   provides a basis for integrating the food value chain by sharing fsc
   transactions via a distributed trustworthy platform which potentially
   enables the realization of the circular food supply chain ( cfsc ) . this
   chapter describes the cfsc concept , features , value propositions ,
   requirements , the technologies and systems for supporting it , and
   applications of ai in food quality and supply chain optimization .
   wageningen academic publishers . the netherlands , 2022
DE aiblockchain; circular food supply chain; food tracking and tracing; gs1
   food smart labels
ID chains; food industry; food supply; internet of things; labels; learning
   systems; pattern recognition; supply chains; aiblockchain; circular food
   supply chain; event prediction; food production; food supply chain; food
   tracking and tracing; gs1 food smart label; optimizations; smart labels;
   tracking and tracing; retail stores

---

UT 1412
AR Abdallah RB, 2024, FOSTER CROSS-IND SUSTAIN INTELL TECHNOL, P457, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3693-1638-2.ch028
TI Artificial intelligence for sustainable food systems
AU Abdallah RB; Aribi HB; Amara EB; Othmeni I; Fattouch S
TC 5
SO FOSTER CROSS-IND SUSTAIN INTELL TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) has emerged as a powerful tool to address
   various challenges in the food industry , particularly in the development of
   eco friendly processes of sustainable food systems . with the growing
   concern for environmental sustainability and food security , there is a need
   for the food industry to adopt sustainable practices that reduce wastes ,
   preserve resources , and improve the overall efficiency of food production ,
   processing , and packaging to meet the needs of the growing human
   populations without compromising the ability of future generations . within
   this context , this chapter delves into the utilization of artificial
   intelligence to construct sustainable food systems . it emphasizes the new
   trends of ai applications to qualitatively and quantitatively optimize key
   elements of sustainable food systems

---

UT 1413
AR Vignesh N, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V647 LNNS, P106, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-27409-1_10
TI Hybrid Diet Recommender System Using Machine Learning Technique
AU Vignesh N; Bhuvaneswari S; Kotecha K; Subramaniyaswamy V
TC 5
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB obesity is a dangerous epidemic worldwide and is the root because of many
   diseases . it is difficult for people to have the same diet with an
   optimized calorie intake as it becomes monotonous and boring . it will be
   much better if a dynamic diet can be generated depending upon the calories
   burnt by a person and their current body mass index ( bmi ) . the active
   diet planner could provide a person with some change regarding the food
   consumed and , at the same time , regulate the calorie intake depending upon
   the user s requirements . previously proposed models are either focused only
   on one aspect of the nutritional information of food or on presenting a diet
   for a specific issue which is presently facing by user . the proposed system
   utilizes more balanced approach that focuses on most of the nutritional
   features of food , and can recommend different foods to a user depending on
   their bmi . the fat , carbohydrate , calorie , and protein content of food
   and the bmi of the user are considered while preparing the diet chart . k
   means clustering is used to cluster food of similar nutritional content ,
   and a random forest classifier is then used to build the model to recommend
   a diet for the user . the result of the system can not be compared with a
   standard metric . still , some of the factors that influence the performance
   of the diet recommender system include the truthfulness of the user while
   providing information to the design and the accuracy at which the parameters
   for the model had been set . the advantage of the system comes from the fact
   that the user has more options to choose from within their suitable range
DE bmi; diet chart; k-means clustering; machine learning; random forest
   classifier; recommender system
ID forestry; machine learning; nutrition; recommender systems; current; body
   mass; body mass index; diet chart; k-means++ clustering; machine learning
   techniques; machine learning; mass index; random forest classifier; root
   cause; k-means clustering

---

UT 1414
AR Azman WNFSW, 2024, J COMMU TECHNOL, V23, P253, DOI 10.32890/jict2024.23.2.4
TI An Embedded Machine Learning-Based Spoiled Leftover Food Detection Device
   for Multiclass Classification
AU Azman WNFSW; Azir KNFK/1; Khairuddin AM/1
TC 4
SO J COMMU TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food waste s negative environmental repercussions are causing it to become a
   global concern . several studies have examined the factors influencing food
   waste behavior and management . this work was motivated by the lack of
   previous research on machine learning and electronic noses to detect
   contamination from leftover cooked food . this work proposes using machine
   learning algorithms and electronic nose technology to recognize and forecast
   the contamination in leftover cooked food . after five days of storage , the
   freshness of cooked leftovers was evaluated using an electronic nose
   combined with machine learning algorithms . most food samples used in this
   work were from malaysian s leftover lunch and dinner dishes . four ( 4 ) gas
   sensors mq 2 , mq 136 , mq 137 , and mq 138-are used in developing the
   electronic nose to identify the presence of gas in the food sample . the
   data from the gas sensors was analyzed using machine learning methods ,
   namely random forest , k nearest neighbors , support vector machine , and
   linear discriminant analysis . based on the results , a multi classification
   technique yielded a greater accuracy rate in classifying and identifying the
   level of contamination in the cooked food leftovers , with average accuracy
   ranging from 90 percent to 100 percent . in conclusion , the work
   demonstrates a novel method for using machine learning algorithms to
   classify , identify , and predict the contamination level of leftover cooked
   food , contributing to reducing food waste generated primarily by malaysians
   . ( 2024 ) , ( universiti utara malaysia press )
DE classification; electronic nose; food safety; food waste; machine learning

---

UT 1415
AR Hu G, 2023, J CLIN NUTR, V117, P553, DOI 10.1016/j.ajcnut.2022.11.022
TI Natural language processing and machine learning approaches for food
   categorization and nutrition quality prediction compared with traditional
   methods
AU Hu G; Ahmed M; L'Abbé MR
TC 58
SO J CLIN NUTR
PY 2023
AB background : food categorization and nutrient profiling are labor intensive
   , time consuming , and costly tasks , given the number of products and
   labels in large food composition databases and the dynamic food supply .
   objectives : this study used a pretrained language model and supervised
   machine learning to automate food category classification and nutrition
   quality score prediction based on manually coded and validated data , and
   compared prediction results with models using bag of words and structured
   nutrition facts as inputs for predictions . methods : food product
   information from university of toronto food label information and price
   database 2017 ( n = 17,448 ) and university of toronto food label
   information and price database 2020 ( n = 74,445 ) databases were used .
   health canada s table of reference amounts ( tra ) ( 24 categories and 172
   subcategories ) was used for food categorization and the food standards of
   australia and new zealand ( fsanz ) nutrient profiling system was used for
   nutrition quality score evaluation . tra categories and fsanz scores were
   manually coded and validated by trained nutrition researchers . a modified
   pretrained sentence bidirectional encoder representations from transformers
   model was used to encode unstructured text from food labels into lower
   dimensional vector representations , followed by supervised machine learning
   algorithms ( i . e . , elastic net , k nearest neighbors , and xgboost ) for
   multiclass classification and regression tasks . results : pretrained
   language model representations utilized by the xgboost multiclass
   classification algorithm reached overall accuracy scores of 0.98 and 0.96 in
   predicting food tra major and subcategories , outperforming bag of words
   methods . for fsanz score prediction , our proposed method reached a similar
   prediction accuracy ( r2 : 0.87 and mse : 14.4 ) compared with bag of words
   methods ( r2 : 0.720.84 . mse : 30.317.6 ) , whereas structured nutrition
   facts machine learning model performed the best ( r2 : 0.98. mse : 2.5 ) .
   the pretrained language model had a higher generalizable ability on the
   external test datasets than bag of words methods . conclusions : our
   automation achieved high accuracy in classifying food categories and
   predicting nutrition quality scores using text information found on food
   labels . this approach is effective and generalizable in a dynamic food
   environment , where large amounts of food label data can be obtained from
   websites . 2022 american society for nutrition
DE food categorization; food composition database; food label; machine
   learning; natural language processing ( nlp ); nutrient profiling; nutrition
   facts table; nutrition quality; pre-trained language model
ID food; humans; machine learning; natural language processing; nutritional
   status; nutritive value; article; australia and new zealand; automation;
   elastic tissue; food composition; food standard; health canada; human; human
   experiment; k-nearest neighbor; machine learning; major clinical study;
   multi-class classification; natural language processing; nutrient profiling;
   prediction; price; supervised machine learning; food; machine learning;
   nutritional status; nutritional value

---

UT 1416
AR Nuru MR, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V610 LNNS, P122, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-25252-5_20
TI Forecasting Demand in the Commodity Market of Food Products Using Neural
   Networks
AU Nuru MR
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB when opening a new commercial enterprise , a correct predictive estimate of
   the demand for the goods of this firm should be given . this work is devoted
   to the use of neural networks for demand forecasting , by determining the
   demand elasticity coefficient , which will allow commercial enterprises to
   give a correct predictive estimate of the demand for their goods in the
   commodity market . it is known that forecasting is a probabilistic
   scientifically substantiated judgment about the trends of the phenomenon
   under study in the future . on the other hand , it should be noted that
   :-demand is an important factor in the study of the commodity market .-when
   opening a new commercial enterprise , a correct predictive assessment of the
   demand for the goods of a given company in the commodity market should be
   given .-demand and supply appear on the commodity market not spontaneously ,
   but are formed and act according to the relevant laws . relevant laws
   .-human experience and intuition are among the main sources of information
   for forecasting demand and future market characteristics .-it is impossible
   to obtain statistical data in advance for a certain period of time . the
   paper considers the features of forecasting demand in the commodity market
   and substantiates the relevance of using neural networks ( which is more
   adequate to the market model in the presence of uncertainty factors ) for
   their forecasting than the methods of extrapolation of trends that are
   actively used in solving economic problems . the issue of choosing the type
   of neural network for approximating and predicting the elasticity
   coefficient of demand for food and non food products is considered
DE commodity market; elasticity coefficient of demand; forecasting demand;
   neural networks; radial basic neural network; regression neural networks
ID commerce; elasticity; food products; forecasting; commercial enterprise;
   commodities market; demand forecasting; elasticity coefficient of demand;
   elasticity coefficients; forecasting demand; neural networks; radial basic
   neural network; regression neural networks; financial markets

---

UT 1417
AR Senthilmurugan M, 2023, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS,
   P150, DOI 10.1109/ICAISS58487.2023.10250603
TI Evaluation of Support Vector Machine and Kernel Neural Network
   Classification for Fast Food Nutrition Data
AU Senthilmurugan M; Yamsani N; Carmel Mary Belinda M; Loganayagi S; Padmakala
   S; Akilandeswari A
TC 2
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2023
AB with the development of technology , maintaining a healthy lifestyle has
   gotten simpler by keeping track of everyday activities like how much food
   you eat and what you eat . nutritional study of fast food aims to prevent
   chronic diseases . healthy nutrition and unhealthy nutrition are the two
   classifications . the support vector machine ( svm ) with pca , t sne is
   compared to knn with pca , and t sne to categorize this nutrition value .
   kaggle food nutrition database is used and evaluated in order to test food .
   svm with t sne outperforms knn in terms of performance
DE food nutrition; knn; machine learning; pca; svm
ID nutrition; chronic disease; fast food; food nutrition; healthy lifestyles;
   knn; machine learning; neural network classification; pca; simple++; support
   vectors machine; support vector machines

---

UT 1418
AR Nandanwar AK, 2024, IEEE INT STUD CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT SCI SCEECS,
   DOI 10.1109/SCEECS61402.2024.10482111
TI Nutrition Estimation and Dietary Assessment in Indian Food through Deep
   Learning
AU Nandanwar AK; Kushwaha M; Vishwatej K; Singh DP; Choudhary J
TC 5
SO IEEE INT STUD CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT SCI SCEECS
PY 2024
AB food nutrition prediction is an interesting area of work before 10 years .
   there was a active research went on . but after that there was a break of
   research on this area . now after corona some active work is going on . as
   the people are interested to know the intake of their food nutrition . and
   in this paper proposing the nutrition prediction in the indian food . in
   this paper followed the deep learning approach to predict the nutrition in
   the food . the person who is interested in finding the nutrition intake will
   capture the image of the food before intake and can get the nutrition values
   before going to consume . so , it can help the people to get an idea and
   track of the nutrition they are consuming . in this we are using a deep
   learning approach to find the nutrition in the image . user will capture the
   food image then that image is sent through cnn model . then by the cnn model
   will find what food item is captured . and before capturing the image will
   ask user information also like name , age , height and weight . so will
   calculate the bmi and the nutrition required for the person . and will store
   the nutrition content user is consuming in every meal . so , at end will
   show the bmi of the user , and present nutrition user is consuming from the
   meal and total nutrition user has to consume in a day . our model for food
   classification achieved an accuracy of 91.87 % 2024 ieee .
DE bmi ( body mass index ); convolutional neural networks; data collection;
   deep learning; dietary management; keras; machine learning; pre-trained
   models; tensorflow; transfer learning
ID convolutional neural networks; deep learning; forecasting; learning systems;
   transfer learning; body mass; body mass index; convolutional neural network;
   data collection; deep learning; dietary management; keras; machine learning;
   mass index; pre-trained model; tensorflow; transfer learning; nutrition

---

UT 1419
AR Agarwal R, 2023, INT J COMPUT METHODS EXP MEAS, V11, P221, DOI
   10.18280/ijcmem.110403
TI IndianFoodNet: Detecting Indian Food Items Using Deep Learning
AU Agarwal R; Choudhury T; Ahuja NJ/1; Sarkar T
TC 9
SO INT J COMPUT METHODS EXP MEAS
PY 2023
AB india is widely recognized for its wealthy heritage , subculture and myriad
   indian cuisines . indian cuisines are famous around the globe for their
   taste and flavors . indian cuisines detection using computer vision based
   methods has been limited till now because of the absence of a standard
   dataset needed to inspect the deep learning based object detection models
   for detecting indian food cuisine using electronic devices . measuring food
   quantities in each item are very challenging tasks for a person . in this
   study the dataset indianfoodnet has been introduced , containing more than
   5500 high quality images and 5000+ annotations spreading across thirty
   classes of indian food items . a comparative study of various state of the
   art object detection models yolo5 , yolo7 and yolo8 has been provided in the
   study . further , the model performance has been inspected and evaluated (
   as in training summary of yolo at 5 epochs yolo8 precision is 0.775 higher
   than precision of yolo7 and yolo5.recall value of yolo7 is least in
   comparison with yolo5 having value 0.671 and yolo8 having recall value 0.719
   ) by qualitatively analyzing the prognostic made on the images of the
   dataset which are segregate for testing . copyright : 2023 iieta .
DE computer vision; yolo5; yolo7; yolo8

---

UT 1420
AR Sheng P, 2024, PROC - INT CONF DATA ANAL COMPUT ARTIF INTELL ICDACAI, P701,
   DOI 10.1109/ICDACAI65086.2024.00133
TI Machine Learning Model for Recipe Optimization of College Students Based on
   Simulated Annealing
AU Sheng P; Chen X/1
TC 0
SO PROC - INT CONF DATA ANAL COMPUT ARTIF INTELL ICDACAI
PY 2024
AB this paper first made a comprehensive dietary nutrition evaluation of the
   two recipes provided , and conducted a visual analysis of the differences of
   various nutrient components by querying the ' table of chinese food
   ingredients ' . the nutrients involved included major daily productivity
   nutrients such as protein and fat , and non productivity nutrients such as
   calcium , iron and zinc , which were used as collaborative evaluation
   indicators . secondly , in order to specifically evaluate the daily diet of
   two male and female students , we pointed out the problems in the diet
   according to the basic requirements for analysis , evaluation and optimal
   design of dietary recipes , and then adjusted and improved them , and made a
   comprehensive dietary nutrition evaluation again . finally , the diet after
   adjustment has been improved to basically meet the nutritional requirements
   . then , two models are established . firstly , a model based on linear
   programming algorithm is established to solve the problem , and a model
   based on simulated annealing algorithm is established as a backup scheme and
   innovative ideas . then , we used model 1 to optimize male and female
   college birthday meal recipes with different goals ( most economical ,
   highest aas , and dual goals ) . finally , we also compare these three kinds
   of daily diet recipes with different objective optimization , and get the
   conclusion that the daily diet recipes with dual objective optimization have
   the highest cost performance . finally , in order to realize the optimal
   design of weekly balanced diet , the paper extends the optimization model of
   daily diet based on problem 2. in order to solve the problem that the
   extended optimization model is difficult to solve due to too many decision
   variables , we propose a random elimination strategy to solve the weekly
   recipe scheme step by step according to the time granularity . after the
   design of daily recipes for each day is completed , the food of the day is
   eliminated from the daily recipes of the next day , and the remaining data
   is incorporated into the recipe solving of the following days . finally ,
   the weekly diet of male and female students based on three different goals
   was solved and evaluated comprehensively
DE linear programming algorithm; machine learning; recipe optimization;
   simulated annealing algorithm
ID students; annealing algorithm; female students; linear programming
   algorithm; machine learning; model-based opc; optimal design; optimizations;
   recipe optimization; simulated annealing algorithm; student-based; simulated
   annealing

---

UT 1421
AR Ibrahim S, 2023, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT ICOCO, P397, DOI
   10.1109/ICOCO59262.2023.10397620
TI Deep Learning Food Detection and Calories Counter
AU Ibrahim S; Arif Aiman Wan Hasnan WM; Md Ghani NA; Fariza Abu Samah KA; Abu
   Mangshor NN; Ahmad Fadzil AF; Janor RM
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT ICOCO
PY 2023
AB monitoring and managing dietary intake plays a vital role in maintaining a
   healthy lifestyle . however , accurately tracking food consumption and
   estimating calorie intake can be challenging . this paper presents a deep
   learning based approach of you only look once version 4 ( yolov4 ) model for
   food detection and calorie counting . leveraging the power of deep neural
   networks , the proposed study automatically detects and classifies food
   items from images and provides real time estimation of their calorie content
   . seven classes of food which are fried noodles , fried rice , kaya toast ,
   nasi lemak , roti canai , fried chicken , and fried egg were addressed , by
   training the model on a diverse and well annotated food dataset . we also
   tackle the issue of calorie estimation . experimental evaluations of the
   proposed yolov4 for food detection demonstrates 96.07 % of accuracy . thus ,
   it could be deduced that the proposed deep learning based food detection and
   calorie counter have the potential to significantly improve dietary
   monitoring and contribute to the promotion of healthier eating habits
DE calories counter; deep learning; dietary intake; food detection; image
   processing
ID food supply; image processing; nutrition; calory counter; deep learning;
   dietary intakes; food consumption; food detection; healthy lifestyles;
   images processing; learning-based approach; power; real time estimation;
   deep neural networks

---

UT 1422
AR Martinho VJPD, 2022, APPL SCI, V12, DOI 10.3390/app122211828
TI Machine Learning and Food Security: Insights for Agricultural Spatial
   Planning in the Context of Agriculture 4.0
AU Martinho VJPD; Cunha CADS; Pato ML; Costa PJL; Sánchez-Carreira MC;
   Georgantzís N; Rodrigues RN; Coronado F
TC 24
SO APPL SCI
PY 2022
AB climate change and global warming interconnected with the new contexts
   created by the covid 19 pandemic and the russia ukraine conflict have
   brought serious challenges to national and international organizations ,
   especially in terms of food security and agricultural planning . these
   circumstances are of particular concern due to the impacts on food chains
   and the resulting disruptions in supply and price changes . the digital
   agricultural transition in era 4.0 can play a decisive role in dealing with
   these new agendas , where drones and sensors , big data , the internet of
   things and machine learning all have their inputs . in this context , the
   main objective of this study is to highlight insights from the literature on
   the relationships between machine learning and food security and their
   contributions to agricultural planning in the context of agriculture 4.0.
   for this , a systematic review was carried out based on information from
   text and bibliographic data . the proposed objectives and methodologies
   represent an innovative approach , namely , the consideration of
   bibliometric evaluation as a support for a focused literature review related
   to the topics addressed here . the results of this research show the
   importance of the digital transition in agriculture to support better policy
   and planning design and address imbalances in food chains and agricultural
   markets . new technologies in era 4.0 and their application through climate
   smart agriculture approaches are crucial for sustainable businesses (
   economically , socially and environmentally ) and the food supply .
   furthermore , for the interrelationships between machine learning and food
   security , the literature highlights the relevance of platforms and methods
   , such as , for example , google earth engine and random forest . these and
   other approaches have been considered to predict crop yield ( wheat , barley
   , rice , maize and soybean ) , abiotic stress , field biomass and crop
   mapping with high accuracy ( r2 0.99 and rmse 1 % )
DE bibliometric analysis; climate-smart agriculture; food 40; industry 40;
   literature review

---

UT 1423
AR Sateesh N, 2024, INT CONF INNOV TRENDS TECHNOL ICITIIT, DOI
   10.1109/ICITIIT61487.2024.10580640
TI A Classification Model for Pesticide Residues in Food Based On Machine
   Learning Methods
AU Sateesh N; Rawat N; Damre SS; Patel W; Patil H; Maranan R
TC 0
SO INT CONF INNOV TRENDS TECHNOL ICITIIT
PY 2024
AB the increasing concern over pesticide residues in food necessitates the
   development of accurate and efficient tools for residue detection and
   classification . this research proposes a novel machine learning based
   classification model for predicting the presence and types of pesticide
   residues in food items . leveraging advanced data analysis techniques , the
   model aims to enhance food safety measures and facilitate regulatory
   compliance . the classification model exhibits promising results in
   accurately identifying the presence of pesticide residues in food items .
   the chosen machine learning algorithms showcase distinct strengths in
   handling the complexity of pesticide residue patterns across different food
   categories . based on machine learning methods , the classification model
   performs with an error of 1.03 % . a model has been designed that makes use
   of three machine learning methods , choosing the most appropriate one ,
   which is capable of analyzing 130,431 food data and classifying them , using
   it for new food data with possible high amounts of pesticide residues
DE agricultural practices; classification model; data analysis; feature
   extraction; feature selection; food safety; machine learning; pesticide
   residues
ID agriculture; chemical contamination; classification ( of information ); data
   handling; feature selection; learning algorithms; pesticides; regulatory
   compliance; agricultural practices; classification models; data analysis
   techniques; features extraction; features selection; food safety; machine
   learning methods; machine learning; on-machines; pesticide residue; food
   safety

---

UT 1424
AR Sarada Ch, 2024, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13188, DOI 10.1117/12.3030407
TI Deep Learning based Food Calorie Measurement with Graphical User Interface
AU Sarada Ch; Suguna mallika S; Swetha G
TC 4
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2024
AB people worldwide are becoming increasingly conscious about leading a healthy
   life . however , in the current busy day to day regimes , paucity of time to
   properly consult nutritionist for a customized food chart is certainly
   difficult for a lot of people due to which their health takes a back seat .
   thus , a trustworthy technique for calorie and nutrient sustenance estimate
   in food is needed . the patient must record their daily food intake for
   monitoring , however due to factors including lack of nutrition , knowledge
   , or self discipline , it is difficult for patients to analyze or regulate
   their daily intake . the proposed approach helps dieticians and patients
   calculate their daily calorie intake . it is a web based approach employing
   computer vision for estimating fruit calories and vegetable calories that
   improves individual s utilization propensities of wellness . the goal of the
   proposed work is to create an accurate and user friendly calorie measurement
   system that can help individuals make more informed dietary choices and
   monitor their calorie intake . the proposed system can accurately measure
   the calories in 95 % cases
DE calorie measurement; cnn; deep learning; food measurement; machine learning
ID graphical user interfaces; learning systems; nutrition; current; calorie
   measurement; daily intake; deep learning; food intake; food measurement;
   machine learning; measurement system; user friendly; web-based approach;
   deep learning

---

UT 1425
AR Vishal Aravinth A, 2023, INT CONF EVOL ALGORITHMS SOFT COMPUT TECH EASCT,
   DOI 10.1109/EASCT59475.2023.10393042
TI Calorie estimation of real time south Indian food data using Convolutional
   Neural Network
AU Vishal Aravinth A; Aakash G; Preethiya T
TC 7
SO INT CONF EVOL ALGORITHMS SOFT COMPUT TECH EASCT
PY 2023
AB due to recent healthcare advancements , food image categorization is a
   growing subject of research and interest . high carbohydrate content in
   indian cuisine is responsible for the raising diabetes rate in the country .
   there is very less literature present which classifies asian dishes . the
   main objective of this paper is to classify south indian food dishes and to
   estimate the calories present in the food . the proposed model uses vgg 16
   architecture of convolutional neural network and resnet50 for feature
   extraction . the data set used in this paper is a collection of real time
   images on south indian food consisting of 11 food dishes . on the training
   data , data augmentation is performed to increase the model s inputs . the
   accuracy of the model is estimated as 71 % for classifying the real time
   dataset
DE food classification; real time dataset; resnet50; south indian food; vgg16
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; calorie estimations;
   convolutional neural network; food classification; food image; image
   categorization; real- time; real time dataset; resnet50; south indian food;
   vgg16; classification ( of information )

---

UT 1426
AR Morales R, 2023, IEEE INT CONF PATTERN RECOGNIT SYST ICPRS, DOI
   10.1109/ICPRS58416.2023.10179037
TI Exploring multi-food detection using deep learning-based algorithms
AU Morales R; Quispe J; Aguilar E
TC 7
SO IEEE INT CONF PATTERN RECOGNIT SYST ICPRS
PY 2023
AB people are becoming increasingly concerned about their diet , whether for
   disease prevention , medical treatment or other purposes . in meals served
   in restaurants , schools or public canteens , it is not easy to identify the
   ingredients and / or the nutritional information they contain . currently ,
   technological solutions based on deep learning models have facilitated the
   recording and tracking of food consumed based on the recognition of the main
   dish present in an image . considering that sometimes there may be multiple
   foods served on the same plate , food analysis should be treated as a multi
   class object detection problem . efficientdet and yolov5 are object
   detection algorithms that have demonstrated high map and real time
   performance on general domain data . however , these models have not been
   evaluated and compared on public food datasets . unlike general domain
   objects , foods have more challenging features inherent in their nature that
   increase the complexity of detection . in this work , we performed a
   performance evaluation of efficient det and yolov5 on three public food
   datasets : unimib2016 , uecfood256 and chileanfood64 . from the results
   obtained , it can be seen that yolov5 provides a significant difference in
   terms of both map and response time compared to efficientdet in all datasets
   . furthermore , yolov5 outperforms the state of the art on uecfood256 ,
   achieving an improvement of more than 4 % in terms of map@.50 over the best
   reported
DE deep learning; efficientdet; food images; multi-food detection; yolov5
ID deep learning; object detection; object recognition; deep learning; disease
   prevention; efficientdet; food detection; food image; learning-based
   algorithms; medical treatment; multi-food detection; nutritional
   information; yolov5; nutrition

---

UT 1427
AR Khang A, 2024, ADV SCI TECHNOL HEAL AGRIC ENV SUSTAIN REV LATEST RES INNOV -
   PROC INT ANAL CONF, P367, DOI 10.1201/9781032708348-56
TI Artificial Intelligence-Based Food Supply Chain Management During the
   Covid-19 Pandemic
AU Khang A; Vohra SK; Gupta SK/2; Sharma BK
TC 3
SO ADV SCI TECHNOL HEAL AGRIC ENV SUSTAIN REV LATEST RES INNOV - PROC INT ANAL
   CONF
PY 2024
AB covid 19 influences the entire system from the area to the customer , which
   is significant because the food supply chain ( fsc ) is a major economic
   factor . current fsc challenges have raised concerns about food supply ,
   manufacturing , transportation , and demand . the covid 19 epidemic limited
   labor mobility , shifted consumer needs , closed food manufacturing
   facilities , tightened food trading rules , and strained the fsc s finances
   . because of these issues , fsc risk management aims to protect fscs against
   disturbances and provide long term benefits to all along the value chain .
   so , this study presents artificial intelligence ( ai ) approach called
   multi link tree based support vector machine ( mt svm ) for managing risks
   in fsc . by concentrating on risk mitigation , this paper will be useful to
   executives in assisting them in developing successful fscs in difficult
   times . we conclude that the proposed approach attains the maximum
   effectiveness in terms of accuracy , precision , fl score , and recall than
   existing approaches . 2024 taylor and francis group , london .
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); covid-19; food supply chain ( fsc ); multi-
   link tree-based support vector machine ( mt-svm ); risk management
ID chains; food supply; forestry; supply chain management; supply chains;
   artificial intelligence; chain management; food manufacturing; food supply
   chain; multi-link; multi-link tree-based support vector machine; risks
   management; support vectors machine; tree-based; risk management

---

UT 1428
AR Reddy YAK, 2023, PROC INT CONF INTELL COMPUT CONTROL SYST ICICCS, P407, DOI
   10.1109/ICICCS56967.2023.10142721
TI Zero Cost Online Food Delivery System with Machine Learning Prediction
AU Reddy YAK; Swaroop CS; Terence S; Reddy KSM; Santhosh K
TC 6
SO PROC INT CONF INTELL COMPUT CONTROL SYST ICICCS
PY 2023
AB the growth of food delivery application ( fda ) , helps customers to get
   variety of food items in their door steps . this helps restaurant to serve
   their customers with different food items , and to increase their business .
   fda also provides jobs to millions of food delivery persons . but the major
   drawback of fda is high commission charges for food orders . this article
   presents zero cost online food delivery system with ml prediction models .
   zero cost online food delivery system provides user friendly interface to
   restaurant , home makers , customers and delivery persons . in this system ,
   the restaurant or home makers can showcase their food items . the customers
   would be able to place the order . delivery person can show interest toward
   delivery of the order . the customers have an option to select the delivery
   person for delivery and pay the delivery charges . all the payments are done
   through upi payment . advantage of the system is , it will not collect
   commission from home makers ( or ) restaurant owners and customers for the
   orders and also machine learning models is used to suggest food items based
   on different factors . random forest , decision tree regression , k nearest
   neighbor , and extra tree classifier models are used to suggest food items
   to the customer
DE decision tree; extra tree; k-neighbors regression; machine learning; online
   food delivery system; random forest
ID costs; e-learning; learning systems; machine learning; nearest neighbor
   search; random forests; sales; delivery systems; extra-trees; food delivery;
   k-neighbor regression; k-neighbors; machine learning; online food delivery
   system; prediction modeling; random forests; user friendly interface;
   decision trees

---

UT 1429
AR El Amin GM, 2024, ICAEE - INT CONF ADV ELECTR ENG, DOI
   10.1109/ICAEE61760.2024.10783364
TI Smart Food Sorting Using Deep Learning
AU El Amin GM; Soumia B; Mostefa B
TC 3
SO ICAEE - INT CONF ADV ELECTR ENG
PY 2024
AB food quality detection refers to the process of evaluating and assessing the
   characteristics , properties , and safety of food products to determine
   their overall quality . it ensures that the food is free from harmful
   contaminants , such as bacteria and viruses . traditional methods involve
   various testing techniques to identify potential issues related to safety
   and nutritional value . however , these methods often require manual labor ,
   resulting in extended detection times and laborious processes . food fruit
   sorting techniques , on the other hand , are methods used to categorize and
   separate fruits based on attributes such as size , color , shape , ripeness
   , and quality . in this article , we present an embedded system remotely
   connected to a server trained model for fruit image classification using the
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) deep learning algorithm . the accuracy
   of the model reached 94 % in the validation set . the embedded system is
   based on a raspberry pi microcontroller equipped with a camera , enabling
   real time sorting of fruits into six categories : fresh orange , fresh
   banana , fresh apple , rotten banana , rotten apple , and rotten orange .
   additionally , it incorporates a weight sensor to determine the total weight
   of each category
DE convolution neural network; embedded-system; food sorting; quality
   detection; raspberry pi
ID citrus fruits; characteristic properties; convolution neural network;
   embedded-system; food quality; food sorting; overall quality; quality
   detection; raspberry pi; safety of food; testing technique; convolutional
   neural networks

---

UT 1430
AR Luo L/1, 2023, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT PROCESS ADV EDUC CIPAE, P733, DOI
   10.1109/CIPAE60493.2023.00142
TI Research on Food Image Recognition of Deep Learning Algorithms
AU Luo L/1
TC 6
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT PROCESS ADV EDUC CIPAE
PY 2023
AB in recent years , food image recognition has been a research field that has
   received much attention . diet is an essential part of people s daily life .
   through food image recognition and classification , dietary evaluation is
   conducted to achieve the goal of healthy eating . manual features and
   classification methods in traditional target detection algorithms can no
   longer meet the requirements of detection accuracy and speed , so it is
   necessary to introduce depth learning based techniques into food image
   recognition . deep learning is a complex machine learning algorithm that
   allows computers to simulate the human brain s thinking , judge new problems
   through data sets ( human experience ) , and improve themselves to obtain
   relatively accurate models , just like humans . among them , convolutional
   neural networks have developed most rapidly . they are applied to image
   recognition with the expectation of being able to automate recognition
   through machine learning , thereby reducing the workload of image
   recognition and providing more objective analysis results . deep learning
   has achieved great success in intelligent image processing , image
   classification , and recognition and has excellent development potential and
   social value . this article implements automatic recognition of food images
   based on the recognition algorithm of the yolov5 convolutional neural
   network structure , which can detect food images with high detection
   efficiency . it explores the combination of deep learning to identify food
   images , providing a reference for people to eat healthily , especially for
   obese people to control calorie intake , and providing theoretical support
   for food image recognition
DE deep learning; food image recognition; yolov5
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; deep learning; image classification; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; classification methods; convolutional neural network; daily lives;
   deep learning; detection speed; food image; food image recognition; research
   fields; target detection algorithm; yolov5; image recognition

---

UT 1431
AR Koo YK, 2024, FOOD ENG PROG, V28, P1, DOI 10.13050/foodengprog.2024.28.1.1
TI Development of a Secondary Model for the Growth of Salmonella enterica in
   Food by Applying Artificial Neural Networks and Databases (ComBase and
   FoodData Central)
AU Koo YK; Jung YW; Kim DH; Kim SW; Kim ES; Park BJ; Lee SJ; Jung SW
TC 0
SO FOOD ENG PROG
PY 2024
AB the secondary growth model for salmonella was developed based on the
   artificial neural network ( ann ) with data collected from combase and
   fooddata central . in addition to the existing secondary model variables (
   temperature , ph , na+ , and water contents ) , more input variables ( sugar
   , carbohydrate , lipid , and protein contents ) were considered . the output
   variables were microbial growth parameters ( lag phase duration [ l ] and
   maximum growth rate [ mmax ] ) . a commercial ann program ( neuralworks
   predict ) was utilized with training at 80 % , validation at 10 % , and test
   data at 10 % . ann models were created using all data and cleansed data .
   using the cleansed data , the training / testing root mean square error (
   rmse ) for mmax improved from 0.14/0.16 to 0.11/0.14 , whereas the rmse for
   l was still not acceptable , from 11.94/33.03 to 7.09/4.18 . the l data were
   divided into two ranges with high and low goodness of fit , whereas the ann
   model for each field was built , resulting in an optimally low rmse . 2024
   korean society for food engineering
DE artificial neural network; combase; microbial growth; salmonella; secondary
   model

---

UT 1432
AR Jeya Sree D, 2024, INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL ADV ENG DOMAIN SUSTAIN, P665,
   DOI 10.1109/SUSTAINED63638.2024.11073831
TI Predictive Analysis of Pesticide Residues in Fruits and Vegetables Using
   Convolutional Neural Network to Enhance Food Safety
AU Jeya Sree D; Mahalakshmi S; Devi SP
TC 1
SO INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL ADV ENG DOMAIN SUSTAIN
PY 2024
AB food safety and the detection of harmful pesticide residues in fruits and
   vegetables have become critical concerns in public health , driving the need
   for advanced analysis methods . this work intends to develop a web
   application that uses convolutional neural network ( cnn ) -based analysis
   for structured data on pesticide residue evaluation on fruits and vegetables
   . with the rapid expansion of wireless networks , enhanced security measures
   are critical in light of security threats and intrusions due to such
   networks . it introduces a novel approach with a cnn model that optimizes
   the detection and classification of pesticide residues from fruits and
   vegetables . since the cnn based model has high accuracy and low
   computational overhead , it efficiently analyzes any structured dataset . to
   maximize detection abilities , comprehensive data regarding several types of
   pesticides are taken into consideration . the cnn model is proven to
   outperform conventional techniques in machine learning through simulations
   and real life experiments regarding detection accuracy , reduced false
   positive rates , and faster processing times . its lightweight design
   enables it to be integrated into scalable web applications , which makes it
   a dependable and efficient solution in augmenting food safety
DE consumer trust; food safety; machine learning techniques; pesticide
   residues; regulatory efforts
ID chemical contamination; convolutional neural networks; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; machine learning; network security; pesticides; predictive
   analytics; public health; safety engineering; security systems; wireless
   networks; consumer trust; convolutional neural network; food safety; fruit
   and vegetables; machine learning techniques; neural network model; pesticide
   residue; regulatory effort; web application; web applications; convolution;
   food safety

---

UT 1433
AR Hossen MS/1, 2024, INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL IND 50 STI, DOI
   10.1109/STI64222.2024.10951149
TI Automated Waste Management: A Deep Learning and Cloud Based Food & Plastic
   Waste Separator Bin
AU Hossen MS/1; Shoukhin AJ; Athin NH; Chakma A; Islam MM
TC 2
SO INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL IND 50 STI
PY 2024
AB waste management techniques should be improved to reduce environmental
   pollution . problematic situations arise while plastic pollution occurs .
   the challenging task is to collect plastic waste from the environment . in
   this era , computer vision helps solving real life problems . environmental
   problems can be sorted out using the advanced technology associated with
   computer vision . using deep learning models , different types of food waste
   and plastic can be identified . in this research work , an automated waste
   separator bin is implemented using deep learning models and cloud computing
   . after going through the experimental process with different models , the
   yolov8 object detection model achieves the best mean average precision (
   map50 ) of 99 % . the automated waste separator bin has a multi box system
   for collecting categorical waste . using this intelligent system , some
   recyclable waste , like plastic , can be sorted out and reduced from mixing
   with the food waste and other categorical waste . waste management will be
   improved by the ability to separate plastic and food waste with this
   automatic bin at the initial stage of waste collection
DE automated waste management; cloud computing; computer vision; plastic
   pollution; smart iot
ID automated waste management; cloud-based; cloud computing; environmental
   pollutions; food waste; learning models; management techniques; plastic
   pollutions; plastics waste; smart iot

---

UT 1434
AR Theera-Ampornpunt N, 2024, IEEE ACCESS, V12, P174204, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3503672
TI Thai Food Recognition Using Deep Learning With Cyclical Learning Rates
AU Theera-Ampornpunt N; Treepong P
TC 8
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2024
AB automated food recognition is essential in order to streamline dietary
   monitoring . to build and evaluate complex food recognition models , large
   datasets of annotated food images are crucial . in this paper , we introduce
   a new dataset called thfood 100 , which is specifically designed for this
   purpose . this dataset consists of 53,459 high quality images of popular
   thai dishes categorized into 100 classes . we conducted a comprehensive
   comparison of 23 deep convolutional neural network and vision transformer
   architectures to establish a strong baseline for classification performance
   on the thfood 100 dataset . additionally , we proposed training the models
   using cyclical learning rates , which has been shown to improve model
   generalization and significantly reduce training time . we demonstrated the
   effectiveness of cyclical learning rates with three standard optimizers on
   thfood 100 , ethz food 101 , and uec food256 . the top performing model
   achieved a 96 % classification accuracy on thfood 100 , showing great
   promise for real world applications . our new dataset is specifically aimed
   at better representing thai cuisine in food recognition research , and our
   analyzes offer valuable insights into the shortcomings of current models
DE deep learning; food dataset; food recognition; image classification;
   learning rate
ID comprehensive comparisons; deep learning; food dataset; food image; food
   recognition; high quality images; images classification; large datasets;
   learning rates; recognition models; food chemistry

---

UT 1435
AR Li Z/1, 2024, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V83, P36469, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-023-15791-2
TI Classical learning or deep learning: a study on food photo aesthetic
   assessment
AU Li Z/1; Zhang Z/7; Gao S
TC 3
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2024
AB food photo esthetic assessment has gained increasing attention in both
   commercial activity and social life . however , there has been little
   research dedicated to the quality classification of food photos . this paper
   presents a study on food photo esthetic evaluation , covering dataset
   collection and evaluation methods . first , a dataset of food photos was
   collected by web crawler from food sharing websites , and the appropriate
   images were selected and labeled using a wechat applet for binary
   classification . then , food photo esthetic assessment was evaluated using
   classical machine learning and deep learning methods . different hand
   crafted features , including layout , texture , color , local , and deep
   features , were manually extracted . two classifiers , support vector
   machine and random forest , were used to establish the classical learning
   models . meanwhile , three convolutional neural networks ( alexnet , vggnet
   , resnet ) were applied to compare with former methods by fine tuning the
   model parameters . four quantitative metrics ( accuracy , recall , precision
   , and f1-score ) were used to evaluate the performance of food photo
   esthetic assessment , with the accuracy of classical and deep learning
   methods being 91.09 % vs 94.70 % , respectively . this demonstrates that
   classical learning with good enough hand crafted features is capable of
   producing performance close to that of cnns . the dataset for food photo
   esthetic assessment can be used as a preliminary exploration of food image
   esthetics assessment from both classical learning and deep learning
DE deep learning; feature engineering; food photo esthetic assessment;
   supervised classification
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; forestry; learning systems; textures; web crawler; collection
   methods; deep learning; evaluation methods; feature engineerings; food photo
   esthetic assessment; learning methods; performance; quality classification;
   social life; supervised classification; support vector machines

---

UT 1436
AR Vaithiyanathan M, 2024, TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG
   BUS TECHNOL, DOI 10.1109/TQCEBT59414.2024.10545152
TI IntelligentDine: Advanced Food Identification and Caloric Assessment through
   Deep Learning for Smart Diet Tracking
AU Vaithiyanathan M; Prasad ChK; Lenka A; Nayak S; Maniraj P; Arigela AK
TC 0
SO TQCEBT - IEEE INT CONF TRENDS QUANTUM COMPUT EMERG BUS TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB the intelligentdine initiative introduces an inventive approach to enhance
   diet tracking and promote healthy eating habits by applying advanced deep
   learning techniques . the primary goal is to precisely identify various food
   items and offer real time estimates of their calorie content , providing
   users with intelligent and personalized diet monitoring capabilities . using
   the python programming language , we employed the resnet150 architecture
   model for food recognition and calorie estimation , utilizing the extensive
   food 101 dataset with 37,046 food images spanning 101 distinct food classes
   . following rigorous training and evaluation , our model demonstrated
   notable success , achieving a training accuracy of 97.30 % and a validation
   accuracy of 98.02 % . these compelling results underscore the efficacy of
   our proposed approach in accurately recognizing and categorizing diverse
   food items . smart bite , a key component of this initiative , harnesses
   deep learning algorithms to swiftly analyze input images within a web
   framework , identifying specific food items and estimating their calorie
   content . this valuable information empowers users to effectively monitor
   their dietary intake . the intelligent diet monitoring capabilities of smart
   bite enable users to make informed decisions about their food choices . by
   tracking and analyzing daily food intake , users can gain insights into
   their nutritional habits , set personalized goals , and make necessary
   adjustments for a balanced and healthy diet . smartbite showcases the
   successful integration of deep learning techniques , specifically employing
   the resnet150 architecture for food recognition and calorie estimation .
   with its impressive accuracy , real time processing capabilities , and
   intelligent diet monitoring features , smartbite has the potential to
   transform how individuals track and manage their dietary habits , fostering
   healthier lifestyles
DE caloric; deep learning analysis; food images; real time; resnet150
ID food ingredients; caloric; calorie estimations; deep learning analyze;
   eating habits; food image; learning techniques; monitoring capabilities;
   python programming language; real- time; resnet150

---

UT 1437
AR Chen T, 2024, ACM COMPUT SURV, V57, DOI 10.1145/3698589
TI Empowering Agrifood System with Artificial Intelligence: A Survey of the
   Progress, Challenges and Opportunities
AU Chen T; Lv L; Wang D/2; Zhang J/3; Yang Y; Zhao Z; Wang C/6; Guo X/2; Chen
   H/3; Wang Q/1; Xu Y; Zhang Q/5; Du B; Zhang L/6; Tao D/1
TC 27
SO ACM COMPUT SURV
PY 2024
AB with the world population rapidly increasing , transforming our agrifood
   systems to be more productive , efficient , safe , and sustainable is
   crucial to mitigate potential food shortages . recently , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) techniques such as deep learning ( dl ) have
   demonstrated their strong abilities in various areas , including language ,
   vision , remote sensing ( rs ) , and agrifood systems applications . however
   , the overall impact of ai on agrifood systems remains unclear . in this
   article , we thoroughly review how ai techniques can transform agrifood
   systems and contribute to the modern agrifood industry . first , we
   summarize the data acquisition methods in agrifood systems , including
   acquisition , storage , and processing techniques . second , we present a
   progress review of ai methods in agrifood systems , specifically in
   agriculture , animal husbandry , and fishery , covering topics such as
   agrifood classification , growth monitoring , yield prediction , and quality
   assessment . furthermore , we highlight potential challenges and promising
   research opportunities for transforming modern agrifood systems with ai . we
   hope this survey can offer an overall picture to newcomers in the field and
   serve as a starting point for their further research . the project website
   is 2024 copyright held by the owner / author ( s ) . publication rights
   licensed to acm .
DE agri-food systems; artificial intelligence; computer vision; machine
   learning; remote sensing
ID adversarial machine learning; deep learning; livestock; agri-food industry;
   agri-food system; artificial intelligence techniques; machine learning;
   processing technique; remote sensing system; remote sensing; storage
   technique; system applications; world population

---

UT 1438
AR Adith M, 2024, IEEE INT CONF CONVERG TECHNOL I2CT, DOI
   10.1109/I2CT61223.2024.10543689
TI A Strategic Analysis of Food Demand Using Machine Learning and Explainable
   AI
AU Adith M; Katti P; Gupta D/1
TC 3
SO IEEE INT CONF CONVERG TECHNOL I2CT
PY 2024
AB the growing importance of meal demand forecasting is increasingly recognized
   as vital for business growth , aiding in efficient procurement planning and
   minimizing waste . this paper employs the meal demand forecasting dataset
   from kaggle to analyze customer order patterns at the top ten profit making
   fulfillment centers , aiming to predict future food item demand . this focus
   enhances the precision of our analysis and underlines the need for optimized
   inventory management in key areas . various regression models , including
   random forest , xgboost , linear , ridge , and lasso regressors etc . were
   tested . the models were assessed through the examination of metrics such as
   root mean square error ( rmse ) , mean absolute error ( mae ) , and r
   squared to provide a comprehensive evaluation . furthermore , this study
   also addresses model interpretability , a significant gap in current
   research , by explaining how different features impact demand predictions .
   this effort aims to provide more understandable and actionable insights for
   strategic decision making in meal demand forecasting
DE explaniable ai; food demand; machine learning; random forest regressor;
   regression; shap
ID decision making; forecasting; forestry; inventory control; mean square
   error; random forests; regression analysis; business growth; demand
   forecasting; explaniable ai; food demand; machine learning; random forests;
   random forest regressor; regression; shap; strategic analysis; machine
   learning

---

UT 1439
AR Liu H/3, 2024, SUSTAIN, V16, DOI 10.3390/su16145928
TI Artificial Intelligence and Food Processing Firms Productivity: Evidence
   from China
AU Liu H/3; Wang Y/9; Yan Z
TC 11
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2024
AB amidst the tremendous evolution of the digital economy and the expedited
   establishment of a new development paradigm , the use of artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) technologies holds significant importance in achieving
   superior economic development . while much of the previous research focused
   on the macroeconomic impact of ai , this study examined how ai technology
   affects food processing firm performance , productivity , and labor skill
   structure at the food processing firm level . this study utilized panel data
   from listed food processing enterprises in shanghai and shenzhen spanning
   from 2010 to 2021 , performing textual analysis on the annual reports of
   listed companies and then creating enterprise level ai indicators to
   empirically examine the influence of ai applications on enterprise
   performance and its underlying mechanisms . the findings indicate a
   substantial improvement in business performance due to the application of
   artificial intelligence , which is a conclusion corroborated through a
   series of stability tests . exploring channels and mechanisms , the analysis
   revealed that ai driven advancements in production technologies stimulated
   the requirement for highly skilled labor , thereby inducing shifts in the
   labor force s structure . further investigation demonstrated that artificial
   intelligence contributed to enhancing the total factor productivity ,
   consequently bolstering the overall enterprise performance . a heterogeneity
   analysis showed that firm level factors , such as the nature of property
   rights and factor intensity , had an impact on the influence of ai on firm
   performance . in addition , the geographic location and time of year of a
   company also had impacts on the productivity benefits of artificial
   intelligence . this research deepened the cognition and understanding of the
   role played by ai in the production process at the micro enterprise level
   and provided suggestions for promoting the development of artificial
   intelligence technologies at the micro enterprise level , which will
   facilitate the transformation of the labor structure to further augment
   enterprise efficiency
DE artificial intelligence; food processing; labor force structure;
   manufacturing firms performance; total factor productivity
ID china; guangdong; shanghai; shenzhen; artificial intelligence; digitization;
   economic development; food processing; geographical region; microenterprise;
   total factor productivity

---

UT 1440
AR Mousa K, 2024, INT J INTERNET MANUF SERV, V10, P391, DOI
   10.1504/IJIMS.2024.142545
TI Challenges in adopting artificial intelligence for food manufacturing and
   supply chain post-pandemic in Palestine
AU Mousa K; Zhang Z/4; Hemdan W
TC 1
SO INT J INTERNET MANUF SERV
PY 2024
AB the covid 19 outbreak has seriously caused food manufacturing and supply
   chain ( fmsc ) disruptions , thereby food insecurity . the paper purposes to
   demonstrate the challenges of adopting machine learning and artificial
   intelligence ( mlai ) and for mitigating the effects of covid 19 in
   palestine fmsc . this study uses an integrated micmac fism to identify 19
   main challenges derived from an inclusive review of publications and
   professionals opinions . subsequently , the discovered challenges are
   prioritized using analytical network process ( anp ) . results show that the
   most critical challenges of mlai adoption in the fmsc are inadequate privacy
   and security of data and absence of government s policies . besides , mlai
   in the fmsc is an influential tool for predicting the future accurately to
   minimalise fears and uncertainty caused by pandemic . the paper is an
   initial attempt to assess the likelihood of mlai in the fmsc post covid 19
   using an integrated method of micmac , fism , and anp in palestine
DE artificial intelligence; covid-19; food manufacturing; food supply chain;
   fuzzy-ism; micmac; risk management
ID food insecurity; food manufacturing; food supply chain; fuzzy-ism; machine
   learning; micmac; network process; palestine; risks management; supply chain
   disruptions; risk management

---

UT 1441
AR Amugongo LM, 2023, HEAL (BASEL), V11, DOI 10.3390/healthcare11010059
TI Mobile Computer Vision-Based Applications for Food Recognition and Volume
   and Calorific Estimation: A Systematic Review
AU Amugongo LM; Kriebitz A; Boch A; Lütge C
TC 50
SO HEAL (BASEL)
PY 2023
AB the growing awareness of the influence of ' what we eat ' on lifestyle and
   health has led to an increase in the use of embedded food analysis and
   recognition systems . these solutions aim to effectively monitor daily food
   consumption , and therefore provide dietary recommendations to enable and
   support lifestyle changes . mobile applications , due to their high
   accessibility , are ideal for real life food recognition , volume estimation
   and calorific estimation . in this study , we conducted a systematic review
   based on articles that proposed mobile computer vision based solutions for
   food recognition , volume estimation and calorific estimation . in addition
   , we assessed the extent to which these applications provide explanations to
   aid the users to understand the related classification and / or predictions
   . our results show that 90.9 % of applications do not distinguish between
   food and non food . similarly , only one study that proposed a mobile
   computer vision based application for dietary intake attempted to provide
   explanations of features that contribute toward classification . mobile
   computer vision based applications are attracting a lot of interest in
   healthcare . they have the potential to assist in the management of chronic
   illnesses such as diabetes , ensuring that patients eat healthily and
   reducing complications associated with unhealthy food . however , to improve
   trust , mobile computer vision based applications in healthcare should
   provide explanations of how they derive their classifications or volume and
   calorific estimations
DE computer vision; food recognition; mobile applications; nutritional
   monitoring; volume estimation

---

UT 1442
AR Hidayat R, 2024, LECT NOTES MECH ENG, P291, DOI 10.1007/978-3-031-74485-3_33
TI Explainable Artificial Intelligence in Agrifood Supply Chain: State of the
   Art Review
AU Hidayat R; Ourairat A; Wicaksono H
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES MECH ENG
PY 2024
AB the increasing pressure to feed a growing population of humans for food
   security , with constantly changing food consumption behavior , as well as
   in recent light of livestock treatment and awareness for food sustainability
   both economically and ecologically , also due to the challenges of climate
   change , lead to challenges for the industries operating in the agrifood
   supply chain ( asc ) . recent technological strides in data analysis ,
   internet of things ( iot ) , machine learning ( ml ) , and artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) have ushered in a digitized and intelligent era within
   the asc , reshaping production quality , sustainability , and food longevity
   . however , the nascent stage of ai and ml methods within the asc raises
   questions about their reliability , value , transparency , and
   understandability . the prevalent use of black box methods underscores the
   need for more explainable methodologies , as the opacity of current
   approaches restricts widespread applicability . this paper presents a state
   of the art review of explainable ai ( xai ) and ml methods in the asc ,
   delving into operations spanning ' farm to fork , ' encompassing agriculture
   production , processes , quality assurance , tracking , warehousing ,
   distribution , packaging , retailing , safety , and sustainability . the
   research identifies challenges and proposes research directions , offering
   researchers an overview of opportunities to implement xai methods in the asc
   . the exploration of coexisting problems and their solutions enhances our
   understanding of intelligent systems in the asc , providing valuable
   insights for stakeholders decision making processes
DE agri-food supply chain; explainable artificial intelligence; state of the
   art review
ID agri-food supply chains; artificial intelligence learning; explainable
   artificial intelligence; food consumption; food security; machine learning
   methods; machine learning; production quality; reliability values; state of
   the art reviews

---

UT 1443
AR Kim DW, 2024, NUTR, V11, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2024.1374834
TI Qualitative evaluation of artificial intelligence-generated weight
   management diet plans
AU Kim DW; Park JS; Sharma K/1; Velazquez A; Li L/5; Ostrominski JW; Tran T;
   Seitter Peréz RH; Shin J-H
TC 37
SO NUTR
PY 2024
AB importance : the transformative potential of artificial intelligence ( ai )
   , particularly via large language models , is increasingly being manifested
   in healthcare . dietary interventions are foundational to weight management
   efforts , but whether ai techniques are presently capable of generating
   clinically applicable diet plans has not been evaluated . objective : our
   study sought to evaluate the potential of personalized ai generated weight
   loss diet plans for clinical applications by employing a survey based
   assessment conducted by experts in the fields of obesity medicine and
   clinical nutrition . design , setting , and participants : we utilized
   chatgpt ( 4.0 ) to create weight loss diet plans and selected two control
   diet plans from tertiary medical centers for comparison . dietitians ,
   physicians , and nurse practitioners specializing in obesity medicine or
   nutrition were invited to provide feedback on the ai generated plans . each
   plan was assessed blindly based on its effectiveness , balanced ness ,
   comprehensiveness , flexibility , and applicability . personalized plans for
   hypothetical patients with specific health conditions were also evaluated .
   main outcomes and measures : the primary outcomes measured included the
   indistinguishability of the ai diet plan from human created plans , and the
   potential of personalized ai generated diet plans for real world clinical
   applications . results : of 95 participants , 67 completed the survey and
   were included in the final analysis . no significant differences were found
   among the three weight loss diet plans in any evaluation category . among
   the 14 experts who believed that they could identify the ai plan , only five
   did so correctly . in an evaluation involving 57 experts , the ai generated
   personalized weight loss diet plan was assessed , with scores above neutral
   for all evaluation variables . several limitations , of the ai generated
   plans were highlighted , including conflicting dietary considerations , lack
   of affordability , and insufficient specificity in recommendations , such as
   exact portion sizes . these limitations suggest that refining inputs could
   enhance the quality and applicability of ai generated diet plans .
   conclusion : despite certain limitations , our study highlights the
   potential of ai generated diet plans for clinical applications . ai
   generated dietary plans were frequently indistinguishable from diet plans
   widely used at major tertiary medical centers . although further refinement
   and prospective studies are needed , these findings illustrate the potential
   of ai in advancing personalized weight centric care
DE ai; chatgpt; diet plan; dietary intervention; weight management

---

UT 1444
AR Navratilova HF, 2024, J TRANSL MED, V22, DOI 10.1186/s12967-024-05663-0
TI Artificial intelligence driven definition of food preference endotypes in UK
   Biobank volunteers is associated with distinctive health outcomes and blood
   based metabolomic and proteomic profiles
AU Navratilova HF; Whetton AD; Geifman N
TC 6
SO J TRANSL MED
PY 2024
AB background : specific food preferences can determine an individual s dietary
   patterns and therefore , may be associated with certain health risks and
   benefits . methods : using food preference questionnaire ( fpq ) data from a
   subset comprising over 180,000 uk biobank participants , we employed latent
   profile analysis ( lpa ) approach to identify the main patterns or profiles
   among participants . blood biochemistry across groups / profiles was
   compared using the non parametric kruskalwallis test . we applied the limma
   algorithm for differential abundance analysis on 168 metabolites and 2923
   proteins , and utilized the database for annotation , visualization and
   integrated discovery ( david ) to identify enriched biological processes and
   pathways . relative risks ( rr ) were calculated for chronic diseases and
   mental conditions per group , adjusting for sociodemographic factors .
   results : based on their food preferences , three profiles were termed : the
   putative health conscious group ( low preference for animal based or sweet
   foods , and high preference for vegetables and fruits ) , the omnivore group
   ( high preference for all foods ) , and the putative sweet tooth group (
   high preference for sweet foods and sweetened beverages ) . the health
   conscious group exhibited lower risk of heart failure ( rr = 0.86 , 95 % ci
   0.790.93 ) and chronic kidney disease ( rr = 0.69 , 95 % ci 0.650.74 )
   compared to the two other groups . the sweet tooth group had greater risk of
   depression ( rr = 1.27 , 95 % ci 1.211.34 ) , diabetes ( rr = 1.15 , 95 % ci
   1.011.31 ) , and stroke ( rr = 1.22 , 95 % ci 1.151.31 ) compared to the
   other two groups . cancer ( overall ) relative risk showed little difference
   across the health conscious , omnivore , and sweet tooth groups with rr of
   0.98 ( 95 % ci 0.961.01 ) , 1.00 ( 95 % ci 0.981.03 ) , and 1.01 ( 95 % ci
   0.981.04 ) , respectively . the health conscious group was associated with
   lower levels of inflammatory biomarkers ( e . g . , c reactive protein )
   which are also known to be elevated in those with common metabolic diseases
   ( e . g . , cardiovascular disease ) . other markers modulated in the health
   conscious group , ketone bodies , insulin like growth factor binding protein
   ( igfbp ) , and growth hormone 1 were more abundant , while leptin was less
   abundant . further , the igfbp pathway , which influences igf1 activity ,
   may be significantly enhanced by dietary choices . conclusions : these
   observations align with previous findings from studies focusing on weight
   loss interventions , which include a reduction in leptin levels . overall ,
   the health conscious group , with preference to healthier food options , has
   better health outcomes , compared to sweet tooth and omnivore groups .
   graphical abstract : ( figure presented . )
DE biomarkers; food preferences; latent profile analysis; metabolomics;
   proteomics; relative risk; unsupervised machine learning
ID adult; aged; artificial intelligence; biological specimen banks; female;
   food preferences; health; humans; male; metabolome; metabolomics; middle
   aged; proteomics; surveys and questionnaires; uk biobank; united kingdom;
   fatty acid binding protein 4; ghrelin; glucose; high density lipoprotein;
   high density lipoprotein cholesterol; insulin; interleukin 1 receptor
   blocking agent; leptin; neurophysin; obestatin; osteocalcin; saturated fatty
   acid; adult; article; beverage; biochemistry; blood biochemistry; body
   composition; body mass; bootstrapping; cardiovascular disease; diabetes
   mellitus; electronic health record; female; food preference; gene
   expression; gene ontology; glaucoma; glucose homeostasis; glycolysis; health
   promotion; human; lipid metabolism; lipolysis; machine learning; male;
   metabolic disorder; metabolomics; middle aged; obesity; oxidative
   phosphorylation; physical activity; principal component analysis; protein
   expression; proteomics; questionnaire; risk factor; schizophrenia; signal
   transduction; upregulation; waist circumference; whiskey; white wine; aged;
   artificial intelligence; biobank; health; metabolome; procedures;
   proteomics; uk biobank; united kingdom

---

UT 1445
AR Siripatrawan U, 2024, MICROB RISK ANAL, V27-28, DOI
   10.1016/j.mran.2024.100295
TI Assessment of food safety risk using machine learning-assisted hyperspectral
   imaging: Classification of fungal contamination levels in rice grain
AU Siripatrawan U; Makino Y
TC 25
SO MICROB RISK ANAL
PY 2024
AB a rapid and nondestructive assessment of food safety risk using machine
   learning assisted hyperspectral imaging was developed for classification of
   fungal contamination in brown rice grain . brown rice was inoculated with
   penicillium . the fungal infected rice was then mixed with healthy rice to
   obtain 0 % , 5 % , 25 % , 50 % and 100 % ( w / w ) contamination of infected
   rice . volatile compounds including pentamethyl heptane , decane , dodecane
   , 3-octanone , and 1-octen 3-old were found in fungal infected rice , as
   analyzed using gas chromatography mass spectrometry . the hsi system was
   used to collect spectral reflectance and spatial data of the samples
   covering the wavelength range of 4001000 nm . the hypercubed data were
   analyzed using machine learning algorithms , including principal component
   analysis ( pca ) , discriminant factor analysis ( dfa ) and support vector
   machine ( svm ) . using pca for data reduction , 3 principal components were
   extracted with a cumulative variance of 90.53 % . dfa ( linear and quadratic
   algorithms ) and svm ( linear , quadratic , cubic , and gaussian algorithms
   ) were then used to classify the samples . hsi integrated with gaussian svm
   gave 93.4 % accuracy which was best for classifying rice with different
   percentages of contamination . the image analysis gave a pseudo color
   distribution map which facilitated the visualization of the contaminated
   rice by presenting data in an uncomplicated image . the machine learning
   assisted hsi can be used as a rapid , nondestructive and chemical free tool
   for an assessment of food safety risk for rice grain
DE fungal contamination; image processing; machine learning; pseudo-color map;
   rapid method
ID 1 octen 3 ol; 3 octanone; decane; dodecane; pentamethyl heptane;
   unclassified drug; volatile agent; article; classification; controlled
   study; discriminant analysis; factor analysis; food safety; fungal
   contamination; grain; hyperspectral imaging; kernel method; linear system;
   machine learning; mass fragmentography; measurement accuracy; nonhuman;
   penicillium; principal component analysis; rice; risk assessment; support
   vector machine

---

UT 1446
AR Shen X, 2024, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V45, P31, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20240104-040
TI Application of Machine Learning in Food Flavor Analysis; [机器学习在食品风味分析中的应用]
AU Shen X; Wang H/2; Yao L; Sun M/1; Wang H/5; Song S; Li X/1; Feng T
TC 3
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2024
AB flavor plays a crucial role in the sensory perception of food and is a key
   determinant for consumer preference and choice . therefore , flavor analysis
   methods are of paramount importance . traditional methods for flavor
   analysis have limitations such as time consuming and unable to handle large
   sample data . the emergence of machine learning is poised to address these
   problems . machine learning possesses the capability to analyze and process
   vast amounts of data , identify complex patterns in high dimensional
   variable spaces , autonomously learn useful information from known data ,
   and automatically generate and optimize algorithms for prediction based on
   new data . the emergence of machine learning provides a new method for
   understanding the complex flavor characteristics of food . this article
   provides a comprehensive review of the advantages and disadvantages of
   traditional and novel machine learning methods as well as their various
   application scenarios in conjunction with analytical instruments such as
   electronic tongue , electronic nose , and gas chromatography mass
   spectrometry ( gc ms ) . additionally , it reviews the application of
   machine learning in food flavor analysis . through research , it has been
   found that different scenarios of food flavor analysis require different
   machine learning methods . machine learning holds significant potential for
   enhancing food quality , safety and consumer satisfaction . the combination
   of multiple machine learning models and analytical techniques will play a
   crucial role in food flavor analysis . 2024 chinese chamber of commerce
DE composition optimization; flavor perception; food flavor; machine learning;
   quality control; sensory analysis
ID electronic nose; electronic tongues; gas chromatography; machine learning;
   mass spectrometry; quality control; analysis method; composition
   optimization; consumer choice; consumers preferences; flavor perceptions;
   flavor analysis; food flavors; key determinants; machine learning methods;
   machine learning; sensory analysis

---

UT 1447
AR Saravanan NP, 2023, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN INFORMATICS ICCCI, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCI56745.2023.10128282
TI Sales Prediction for Food Products Using Machine Learning
AU Saravanan NP; Muthupriyanka R; Kishore KCN; Ishwarya S
TC 1
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN INFORMATICS ICCCI
PY 2023
AB machine learning contain many algorithms to predict outcomes more accurately
   without having to be explicitly coded . by using machine learning algorithms
   , the prediction is done with the help of the parametric evaluation and
   conclusion matrix . nowadays the competition among the supermarkets is
   increasing and the customer expectations are increasing . in this paper the
   overall sales is identified and with more accuracy and the other extra
   classification of the attributes are also predicted , then the prediction of
   the specific product also identified and location wise sales , supermarket
   sales and other categories for the more analysis of the sales is also
   predicted and in the overall sales which range the sales is high also
   predicted and the several algorithms like knn algorithm , naive bayes
   algorithm , and some algorithms are used for the prediction
ID barium compounds; food products; forecasting; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; machine learning; retail stores; customer expectation; machine
   learning algorithms; machine learning; matrix; naive bayes algorithm; sale
   predictions; supermarket sales; sales

---

UT 1448
AR Arumuga Maria Devi T, 2023, INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST, V31,
   P691, DOI 10.1142/S0218488523500320
TI Performance Metrics on Hyperspectral Images in Fuzzy Contextual
   Convolutional Neural Network for Food Quality Analyzer
AU Arumuga Maria Devi T; Darwin P
TC 1
SO INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST
PY 2023
AB the quality of food and the safety of consumer is one of the major essential
   things in our day to day life . to ensure the quality of foods through their
   various attributes , different types of methods have been introduced . in
   this proposed method , three underlying blocks namely hyperspectral food
   image context extractor ( hfice ) , hyperspectral context fuzzy classifier (
   hcfc ) and cnn for food quality analyzer ( cfqa ) . hyperspectral food image
   context extractor module is used as the preprocess to get food attributes
   such as texture , color , size , shape and molecular particulars .
   hyperspectral context fuzzy classifier module identifies a particular part
   of the food ( zone entity ) is whether carbohydrate , fat , protein , water
   or unusable core . cnn for food quality analyzer module uses a tuned
   convolutional layer , heuristic activation operation , parallel element
   merge layer and a regular fully connected layer . indian pines , salinas and
   pavia are the benchmark dataset to evaluate hyperspectral image based
   machine learning procedures . these datasets are used along with a dedicated
   chicken meat hsi dataset is used in the training and testing process .
   results are obtained that about 7.86 % of average values in various
   essential evaluation metrics such as performance metrics such as accuracy ,
   precision , sensitivity and specificity have improved when compared to
   existing state of the art results
DE food quality analyzer; fuzzy classifier; hyperspectral image
ID convolution; food safety; fuzzy sets; hyperspectral imaging; image
   classification; textures; benchmark datasets; convolutional neural network;
   food image; food quality; food quality analyzer; fuzzy classifiers;
   hyperspectral; hyperspectral image; performance metrices; preprocess;
   statistical tests

---

UT 1449
AR Dai S, 2023, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V23, P337, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2023.12.034
TI Application of Machine Learning on Food Storage Quality Prediction;
   [機器學習在食品儲存品質預測的應用]
AU Dai S; Wu W; Niu B; Fang X; Chen H/2; Chen H/1; Cao H
TC 3
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB during the process of food storage and circulation , there will be different
   degrees of quality deterioration . with the improvement of people s
   attention to food quality and safety , it is of great significance to carry
   out quality prediction research in the process of food storage and
   transportation for quality control . this paper reviews the research
   progress of machine learning in food storage quality prediction , including
   conventional quality prediction methods and limitations , and then focuses
   on the rapid development and wide application of integrated learning and
   artificial neural network algorithms , and prediction performance evaluation
   methods in recent years . finally , it summarizes and looks forward to the
   future development trend of machine learning in the food field , and
   provides relevant references for the development of food science cross
   research . 2023 chinese institute of food science and technology
DE food quality; machine learning; microorganisms; modelevaluation; prediction
ID deterioration; food storage; machine learning; neural networks; quality
   control; food quality; food quality and safeties; machine learning;
   modelevaluation; prediction methods; prediction research; quality
   deteriorations; quality prediction; storage and transportations; storage
   quality; forecasting

---

UT 1450
AR Chopra M, 2022, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P37, DOI 10.1145/3549206.3549214
TI Food Image Recognition by optimizing CNN with PSO and GA
AU Chopra M; Purwar A
TC 6
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2022
AB this research work proposes a food image recognition model . this paper
   proposes a model constituting cnn with pso and ga that aims to increase the
   accuracy . cnn as a classifier has been used for classification of food
   images . the purpose of optimizing cnn with pso and ga is to do the
   classification part as efficiently as possible because this can change the
   whole picture as it is directly dependent on the overall dietary assessment
   results . the performance of the proposed model is evaluated using uec food
   100 , a dataset which contains pictures of 100 kinds of food . the proposed
   model yields an accuracy of 82.3 %
DE food recognition machine learning cnn pso ga; keywords
ID machine learning; dietary assessments; food image; food recognition machine
   learning cnn pso ga; image recognition model; keyword; machine learning;
   model yields; performance; image recognition

---

UT 1451
AR Ramírez J, 2024, J DISTRIB SCI, V22, P83, DOI 10.15722/jds.22.06.202406.83
TI Implementation of Artificial Intelligence Systems for Agri-food Supply
   Chains: A Bibliometric Approach
AU Ramírez J; Herrera H; Redondo O; Sulbarán S
TC 6
SO J DISTRIB SCI
PY 2024
AB purpose : the present study is developed with the aim of mapping the trends
   in scientific production related to the implementation of artificial
   intelligence systems for agro food supply chains . research design , data
   and methodology : the methodological approach of the research shows a
   descriptive documentary process based on bibliometric techniques for mapping
   the main indicators of the area of knowledge through the establishment of a
   search equation in scopus . results : the research results show a total of
   633 documents published between 2019 and 2023 , with a great annual growth
   rate of 61.68 % . in addition to a notable participation of countries such
   as india , china , the united kingdom and the united states in the
   generation of new knowledge related to artificial intelligence applied to
   food distribution systems . conclusions : it is concluded that the rise of
   new artificial intelligence technologies has shown extremely important
   results in the development of industries worldwide , with increasingly
   accelerated steps . which certainly translates into the creation of spaces
   and incentives in the production of research aimed at understanding these
   dynamics and in turn to propose new alternatives and proposals for the
   reduction of the large technological gaps that are present within the agro
   food sector .
DE agriculture; agro-industrial; artificial intelligence; deep learning; supply
   chain

---

UT 1452
AR Rage K, 2024, PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN APPL INFORMATICS ACCAI, DOI
   10.1109/ACCAI61061.2024.10602468
TI Impact of Climate Change on Global Food Supply using Machine learning
   Algorithms
AU Rage K; Manaswini R; Gayathri A; Sharandeep G
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN APPL INFORMATICS ACCAI
PY 2024
AB human life is significantly impacted by both agriculture and climate change
   . these effects of climatic variability , like severity of droughts , fires
   , storms , floods , have gradually come into view . environmental resources
   and agricultural practices , on which we strongly rely , are altering as
   part of the whole ecosystem . as a result , one of the biggest problems
   faced by mankind today is climate change . climate change poses a serious
   threat to global food supply , impacting crop yields and food security .
   increasing temperatures , altered precipitation distributions , and extreme
   weather events disrupt agricultural systems . urgent mitigation and
   adaptation strategies are essential to guarantee the sustainability of food
   production and address the evolving challenges induced by climate change .
   machine learning may help society adjust to these changes while also
   reducing the negative impacts of changes in weather . understanding how the
   climate is altering and , predicting how it will affect the world s food
   supply / production in the long run is the main objective of this project
DE climate change; crop yieldt; decision tree; food supply
ID crops; decision trees; food supply; learning algorithms; machine learning;
   sustainable development; agricultural practices; climatic variability; crop
   yield; crop yieldt; environmental resources; food security; human lives;
   increasing temperatures; machine learning algorithms; precipitation
   distribution; climate change

---

UT 1453
AR Takahashi H, 2024, CEUR WORK PROC, V3748, P25
TI Leftover Food Measurement using Deep Learning Based Semantic Segmentation
AU Takahashi H; Ishibashi R; Kaneko H; Meng L
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2024
AB in the super aging society , the number of caregivers for the elderly is
   insufficient . furthermore , the increasing demand for quality care
   exacerbates the labor shortage problem . hence , care technology work has
   become increasingly important . this paper focuses on automatically
   measuring food intake to monitor the health situation of the elderly . the
   proposed approach utilizes a semantic segmentation model based on deep
   learning methods . specifically , the you net architecture is employed as a
   foundational module for segmenting food intake from the after meal plate .
   attention modules are integrated into the you net to enhance the mean
   intersection over union ( miou ) while minimizing the number of model
   parameters and flops ( floating point operations ) . furthermore , an
   attention search method is proposed to search for the optimized attention
   module insert position in the you net . the experimental results demonstrate
   that the proposed method achieves a high score , such as miou of 87.1 % ,
   with only a slight increase in the number of parameters and flops , thus
   confirming its effectiveness . optimizing and applying the proposal to
   practice is important work in the future . to further optimize the number of
   parameters and flops , the attention insertion position should be explored
   with a technique called neural architecture search ( nas )
ID deep learning; aging societies; floating point operations; food intake;
   labor shortages; learning methods; model-based opc; net architecture;
   quality care; segmentation models; semantic segmentation; semantic
   segmentation

---

UT 1454
AR Rodriguez-Saona LE, 2025, ADV FOOD NUTR RES, V115, P165, DOI
   10.1016/bs.afnr.2025.04.001
TI Vibrational spectroscopy (Raman and infrared) and machine learning tools in
   food safety and composition
AU Rodriguez-Saona LE; de Lamo Castellvi S
TC 1
SO ADV FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2025
AB the integration of machine learning ( ml ) with vibrational spectroscopy has
   revolutionized the food industry , advancing the ways food quality ,
   authenticity , and safety are analyzed . ml methods , including traditional
   approaches such as support vector machines ( svms ) and partial least
   squares regression ( plsr ) , and advanced deep learning techniques like
   neural networks ( nns ) , enable the efficient and precise processing of
   complex multivariate datasets . vibrational spectroscopy methods near
   infrared ( nir ) , mid infrared ( mir ) , and raman spectroscopy are non
   destructive , versatile , and provide detailed molecular insights . the
   synergy between ml and these spectroscopic techniques has significantly
   enhanced capabilities for identifying adulterants , quantifying quality
   indicators , and detecting contaminants in food products . cnns analyze
   spectral data to classify products , identify spoilage , and verify food
   origins , while rnns excel in capturing sequential spectral patterns for
   monitoring storage conditions . portable spectrometers integrated with ml
   algorithms offer real time , on site food analysis , streamlining quality
   assessments and safety protocols . despite challenges such as data
   variability , limited labeled datasets , and the interpretability of deep
   learning models , advancements in ml , including data augmentation and
   transfer learning , are addressing these limitations . the combination of ml
   and vibrational spectroscopy represents a transformative leap for the food
   industry , providing innovative solutions to global challenges in food
   security , quality control , and sustainability . as these technologies
   continue to evolve , they promise to drive significant improvements in food
   analysis , ensuring safer and higher quality food products worldwide
DE field analysis; food quality; food safety; machine learning; vibrational
   spectroscopy
ID food analysis; food contamination; food quality; food safety; machine
   learning; spectrophotometry infrared; spectroscopy near infrared; spectrum
   analysis raman; food analysis; food contamination; food quality; food
   safety; infrared spectrophotometry; machine learning; near infrared
   spectroscopy; procedures; raman spectrometry

---

UT 1455
AR O’Shea N, 2023, ENCYCL FOOD SAF ED VOL 1-4, V1-4, PV4, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-822521-9.00258-6
TI Artificial Intelligence in Food Safety
AU O’Shea N; Greene D; Fenelon MA
TC 0
SO ENCYCL FOOD SAF ED VOL 1-4
PY 2023
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) used with different data sources is becoming
   a technology that can provide rapid solutions for determining food safety .
   current data sources used for artificial intelligence are described , e . g
   . , computer / machine vision , spectroscopy , i . e . , nir and temperature
   . different ai approaches may be more applicable to some food safety
   applications than others . in particular , different machine and deep
   learning algorithms with supporting food examples are discussed and how they
   potentially affect future food safety considerations
DE artificial intelligence; big data; deep learning; food safety; machine
   learning; sensors; supervised learning; unsupervised learning

---

UT 1456
AR Patil A, 2023, INT J ENG TRENDS TECHNOL, V71, P277, DOI
   10.14445/22315381/IJETT-V71I12P226
TI Forecasting Prices of Agricultural Commodities using Machine Learning for
   Global Food Security: Towards Sustainable Development Goal 2
AU Patil A; Shah D; Shah A; Kotecha R
TC 13
SO INT J ENG TRENDS TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB global food security is vital for promoting human health , upholding social
   well being , and ultimately achieving the united nations sustainable
   development goal ( sdg ) 2 : zero hunger . conversely , it is influenced by
   a multitude of factors , with the dynamics of agricultural commodity prices
   playing a significant role . recognizing the potential of machine learning
   in agricultural applications , this work delves into exploring the price
   dynamics of key agricultural commodities across various global producers .
   through rigorous experimentation and performance comparison , this study
   analyzes suitable machine learning methods and proposes a hybrid sarima lstm
   ( hysals ) to forecast global prices of agricultural commodities . the
   effectiveness of the proposed approach is evaluated using historical price
   data for five important commodities : wheat , millet , sorghum , maize , and
   rice , both on a global average scale and with specific emphasis on
   developing nations that are either global leaders in the production of these
   crops or hold a significant production share within their own borders . the
   training data encompasses the years 2005 to 2017 , while testing is
   conducted for the period from 2018 to 2022 , followed by forecasting global
   prices for these commodities from 2023 to 2030 . the insights derived from
   these forecasts are aimed to assist the decision making processes of various
   stakeholders , from farmers to policymakers , thereby contributing to the
   efforts toward achieving global food security
DE agricultural research; global food security; machine learning; price
   dynamics; price forecasting; sustainable development goals

---

UT 1457
AR Zhou J/1, 2024, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V13396, DOI 10.1117/12.3050535
TI Deep learning in food category recognition
AU Zhou J/1
TC 0
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2024
AB this paper proposes a deep learning based food image recognition system to
   enhance checkout efficiency in university cafeterias . addressing the
   bottlenecks of traditional manual checkout methods , a food image
   classification model has been designed and implemented , combining
   convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) and fully connected networks ( fcn ) .
   the system extracts image features through convolutional layers , reduces
   feature map dimensions using pooling layers , and makes classification
   decisions through fully connected layers . additionally , data augmentation
   techniques were utilized to expand the training data , and optimization
   methods such as regularization and dropout were introduced to improve the
   model s generalization ability . the main structure of the paper includes
   sections on system architecture design , data preparation and processing ,
   experimental results , and analysis . the system architecture design section
   details the construction methods of cnn and fcn and their application in
   this system . the data preparation and processing section describes the
   process of obtaining raw data , data augmentation , and preprocessing . the
   experimental results and analysis section demonstrates the impact of
   different parameter settings on model performance and proves the
   effectiveness of the proposed method through experimental data . the system
   is characterized by its efficient food image classification ability and good
   generalization performance . extensive experiments on the dataset revealed
   that increasing the sample size and setting hyperparameters appropriately
   can significantly improve the model s accuracy and stability . with a sample
   size of 10,000 , the model achieved an average accuracy of 86.88 % , and the
   low standard deviation indicates stable performance in practical
   applications
DE convolutional neural networks ( cnn ); deep learning; food image
   recognition; fully connected networks ( fcn )
ID deep neural networks; image enhancement; multilayer neural networks;
   convolutional neural network; data augmentation; deep learning; food image;
   food image recognition; fully connected network; fully connected networks;
   images classification; system architecture design; convolutional neural
   networks

---

UT 1458
AR Zhao S/1, 2023, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, V17, P5972, DOI
   10.1007/s11694-023-02084-3
TI Rapid detection and prediction model establishment of propachlor residues in
   food assisted by machine learning
AU Zhao S/1; Liu W; Song D
TC 8
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2023
AB the detection of the herbicide propachlor in environmental and food samples
   is critical due to its potential toxic effects . in this study , a sensitive
   and selective electrochemical sensor based on a molecularly imprinted
   polymer ( mip ) , polyethyleneimine treated multi walled carbon nanotubes (
   pei mwcnts ) , and gold nanoparticles ( aunps ) was developed for propachlor
   detection . the pei mwcnts enhanced the conductivity of the sensor , while
   aunps promoted electron transfer during the detection process , resulting in
   a lower detection limit ( 78 nm ) and a wider linear range ( 0.5 m to 70 m )
   compared to traditional sensors . furthermore , the sensor exhibited high
   selectivity against other herbicides , with interference suppression
   percentages above 92 % for common contaminants . the performance of the
   sensor was further improved by integrating an xgboost machine learning
   algorithm for data analysis , which improved the predictive accuracy of
   propachlor concentration . reproducibility tests on three independently
   prepared sensors showed a relative standard deviation ( rsd ) below 5 % .
   this innovative approach presents a significant advancement in the field of
   propachlor detection , providing an effective tool for environmental
   monitoring and food safety
DE electrochemical sensor; food safety; machine learning; molecularly imprinted
   polymers; propachlor detection
ID electrochemical sensors; food safety; gold nanoparticles; herbicides;
   learning algorithms; multiwalled carbon nanotubes ( mwcn ); weed control;
   detection models; food safety; machine learning; molecularly imprinted
   polymer; multi-walled-carbon-nanotubes; poly ( ethyleneimine ); prediction
   modeling; propachlor; propachlor detection; rapid detection; machine
   learning

---

UT 1459
AR Li X/6, 2024, NUTR, V16, DOI 10.3390/nu16152573
TI Evaluating the Quality and Comparative Validity of Manual Food Logging and
   Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Food Image Recognition in Apps for Nutrition
   Care
AU Li X/6; Yin A; Choi HY; Chan V; Allman-Farinelli M; Chen J/1
TC 26
SO NUTR
PY 2024
AB for artificial intelligence ( ai ) to support nutrition care , high quality
   and accuracy of its features within smartphone applications ( apps ) are
   essential . this study evaluated popular apps features , quality , behavior
   change potential , and comparative validity of dietary assessment via manual
   logging and ai . the top 200 free and paid nutrition related apps from
   australia s apple app and google play stores were screened ( n = 800 ) .
   apps were assessed using mars ( quality ) and abacus ( behavior change
   potential ) . nutritional outputs from manual food logging and ai enabled
   food image recognition apps were compared with food records for western ,
   asian , and recommended diets . among 18 apps , noom scored highest on mars
   ( mean = 4.44 ) and abacus ( 21/21 ) . from 16 manual food logging apps ,
   energy was overestimated for western ( mean : 1040 kj ) but underestimated
   for asian ( mean : 1520 kj ) diets . myfitnesspal and fastic had the highest
   accuracy ( 97 % and 92 % , respectively ) out of seven ai enabled food image
   recognition apps . apps with more ai integration demonstrated better
   functionality , but automatic energy estimations from ai enabled food image
   recognition were inaccurate . to enhance the integration of apps into
   nutrition care , collaborating with dietitians is essential for improving
   their credibility and comparative validity by expanding food databases .
   moreover , training ai models are needed to improve ai enabled food
   recognition , especially for mixed dishes and culturally diverse foods
DE apps; artificial intelligence; dietary assessment; dietetic practice;
   dietitian; food; mhealth; mobile phone; nutrition care process; smartphone
ID artificial intelligence; australia; diet; diet records; humans; mobile
   applications; nutrition assessment; nutrition therapy; reproducibility of
   results; smartphone; caffeine; calcium; carbohydrate; fat; food ingredient;
   iron; potassium; saturated fatty acid; sodium; trace element; age; article;
   artificial intelligence; behavior change; body height; body weight; body
   weight loss; diabetes mellitus; dietary fiber; energy expenditure; fasting;
   food preference; human; intermittent fasting; interrater reliability;
   ketogenic diet; lifestyle; macronutrient; medical history; menopause;
   metadata; nutritional assessment; nutritional support; physical activity;
   self-monitoring; sleep; telehealth; validity; western diet; australia;
   comparative study; diet; diet therapy; medical record; mobile application;
   procedures; reproducibility; smartphone

---

UT 1460
AR Zheng J/2, 2024, J MED INTERNET RES, V26, DOI 10.2196/54557
TI Artificial Intelligence Applications to Measure Food and Nutrient Intakes:
   Scoping Review
AU Zheng J/2; Wang J/7; Shen J/4; An R
TC 47
SO J MED INTERNET RES
PY 2024
AB background : accurate measurement of food and nutrient intake is crucial for
   nutrition research , dietary surveillance , and disease management , but
   traditional methods such as 24-hour dietary recalls , food diaries , and
   food frequency questionnaires are often prone to recall error and social
   desirability bias , limiting their reliability . with the advancement of
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) , there is potential to overcome these
   limitations through automated , objective , and scalable dietary assessment
   techniques . however , the effectiveness and challenges of ai applications
   in this domain remain inadequately explored . objective : this study aimed
   to conduct a scoping review to synthesize existing literature on the
   efficacy , accuracy , and challenges of using ai tools in assessing food and
   nutrient intakes , offering insights into their current advantages and areas
   of improvement . methods : this review followed the prisma scr ( preferred
   reporting items for systematic reviews and meta analyses extension for
   scoping reviews ) guidelines . a comprehensive literature search was
   conducted in 4 databases pubmed , web of science , cochrane library , and
   ebsco covering publications from the databases inception to june 30 , 2023 .
   studies were included if they used modern ai approaches to assess food and
   nutrient intakes in human subjects . results : the 25 included studies ,
   published between 2010 and 2023 , involved sample sizes ranging from 10 to
   38,415 participants . these studies used a variety of input data types ,
   including food images ( n=10 ) , sound and jaw motion data from wearable
   devices ( n=9 ) , and text data ( n=4 ) , with 2 studies combining multiple
   input types . ai models applied included deep learning ( eg , convolutional
   neural networks ) , machine learning ( eg , support vector machines ) , and
   hybrid approaches . applications were categorized into dietary intake
   assessment , food detection , nutrient estimation , and food intake
   prediction . food detection accuracies ranged from 74 % to 99.85 % , and
   nutrient estimation errors varied between 10 % and 15 % . for instance , the
   rgb d ( red , green , blue depth ) fusion network achieved a mean absolute
   error of 15 % in calorie estimation , and a sound based classification model
   reached up to 94 % accuracy in detecting food intake based on jaw motion and
   chewing patterns . in addition , ai based systems provided real time
   monitoring capabilities , improving the precision of dietary assessments and
   demonstrating the potential to reduce recall bias typically associated with
   traditional self report methods . conclusions : while ai demonstrated
   significant advantages in improving accuracy , reducing labor , and enabling
   real time monitoring , challenges remain in adapting to diverse food types ,
   ensuring algorithmic fairness , and addressing data privacy concerns . the
   findings suggest that ai has transformative potential for dietary assessment
   at both individual and population levels , supporting precision nutrition
   and chronic disease management . future research should focus on enhancing
   the robustness of ai models across diverse dietary contexts and integrating
   biological sensors for a holistic dietary assessment approach . jiakun zheng
   , junjie wang , jing shen , ruopeng an .
DE ai; ai-based; artificial intelligence; computer vision; deep learning; diet;
   dietary assessments; disease management; food; food intake; machine
   learning; measurement; mobile phone; natural language processing; neural
   networks; nutrient; systematic literature
ID adolescent; adult; artificial intelligence; child; deep learning; eating;
   female; humans; male; nutrients; nutrition assessment; adolescent; adult;
   artificial intelligence; cochrane library; convolutional neural network;
   dietary intake; female; food frequency questionnaire; food intake; human;
   mean absolute error; medline; meta analysis; nutrient intake; nutritional
   assessment; review; support vector machine; systematic review; web of
   science; child; deep learning; eating; male; nutrient

---

UT 1461
AR Maruthi R, 2023, PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS, P1584,
   DOI 10.1109/ICAISS58487.2023.10250646
TI Monitoring Perishable Foods using Machine Learning and Internet of Things
AU Maruthi R; Lakshmi I; Devi VD
TC 2
SO PROC INT CONF AUGMENT INTELL SUSTAIN SYST ICAISS
PY 2023
AB the perishable food items are needed to be monitored in order to ensure food
   safety and quality before it is to be consumed . the perishable food items
   were preserved and packed to maintain the quality as well as safety in an
   appropriate environment . the environment has to be monitored using feasible
   technologies . the internet of things ( iot ) is a proven technology to
   monitor and control anything in the remote place . the machine learning ( ml
   ) approach , an emerging field can be combined with iot to monitor the
   perishable food items effectively . the proposed study focuses on a
   framework with iot and ml for the smart monitoring of food items to maintain
   its safety and quality to avoid wastage of food items
DE food quality; food safety; internet of things; machine learning; perishable
   foods
ID food safety; machine learning; food quality; food safety; machine learning
   approaches; machine learning; monitor and control; perishable food; remote
   places; smart monitoring; internet of things

---

UT 1462
AR Akhmad FK, 2024, PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL INNOV APPL ICTIIA, DOI
   10.1109/ICTIIA61827.2024.10761250
TI Deep Learning for Predicting Food Commodity Prices in Traditional Markets
AU Akhmad FK; Sudianto S; Aldo D
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF TECHNOL INNOV APPL ICTIIA
PY 2024
AB banyumas is one region with a history of fluctuating food prices ,
   especially the price of shallots and chicken meat . several factors affect
   fluctuating food prices , such as harvests , seasons , market demand , and
   so on . farmers or ranchers often experience losses in selling crops and
   livestock products . this phenomenon occurs due to intermediaries
   monopolizing prices , and farmers need more knowledge about market prices ,
   so traditional transactions are detrimental . price forecasting can be one
   of the practical solutions to help farmers and ranchers understand the
   prices of their crops and livestock yields . therefore , deep learning is
   applied to the experience of food commodities with lstm and gru . in this
   study , the lstm model achieved the highest performance by producing an mse
   value of 0.00035 , while the gru model produced an mse value of 0.00036.
   lstm models perform better with layer lstm , epoch 100 , batch size 64 ,
   optimization adam , and neuron 128
DE commodity; food; forecasting; gru; lstm; price
ID chicken meat; commodity; commodity prices; food commodity; food prices; gru;
   harvest season; lstm; price; traditional markets

---

UT 1463
AR Ozturk S, 2023, J FOOD ENG, V341, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2022.111339
TI Near-infrared spectroscopy and machine learning for classification of food
   powders during a continuous process
AU Ozturk S; Bowler A; Rady A; Watson NJ
TC 74
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2023
AB in food production environments , the wrong powder material is occasionally
   loaded onto a production line which impacts food safety , product quality ,
   and production economics . the aim of this study was to assess the potential
   of using near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy combined with machine learning
   to classify food powders under motion conditions . two nir sensors with
   different wavelength ranges were compared and the ml models were tasked with
   classifying between 25 food powder materials . eleven different spectra pre
   processing methods , three feature selection methods , and five algorithms
   were investigated to find the optimal ml pipeline . it was found that pre
   processing the spectra using autoencoders followed by using support vector
   machines with the all spectral wavelengths from both sensors was most
   accurate . the results were improved further using under sampling and
   boosting . overall , this method achieved 99.52 , 97.12 , 94.08 , and 91.68
   % accuracy for the static , 0.017 , 0.036 and 0.068 m s 1 sample speeds .
   the models were also validated using an independent test sets
DE digital manufacturing; food powders; in-line sensors; machine learning; near
   infrared spectroscopy
ID e-learning; infrared devices; near infrared spectroscopy; pipeline
   processing systems; powders; processing; continuous process; digital
   manufacturing; digital manufacturing; food powders; food production; in-line
   sensors; machine learning; powder material; production environments;
   spectras; support vector machines

---

UT 1464
AR Rout S, 2024, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1147 LNNS, P11, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-7880-5_2
TI From Farm to Fork: Applications of Artificial Intelligence in the Food
   Industry
AU Rout S; Samantaray S
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence represents a dynamic and interdisciplinary approach
   poised to revolutionize various segments within the food industry , aiming
   to address challenges and elevate performance standards . this research
   paper aims to underscore ai s pivotal role across bakery , fermentation ,
   dairy products , fruits , vegetables , beverages , and even supply and
   logistics sectors , illuminating its diverse applications . across these
   domains , a multitude of strategies have been deployed to propel
   technological advancements and foster growth within the food industry .
   given the transformative impact of ai on food production , distribution ,
   and consumption , it is crucial to examine the potential of these
   advancements in promoting sustainable , accountable , and equitable
   practices . by endorsing fair practices and advancing opportunities for
   women , these applications have the potential to foster an industry that may
   be considered to be balanced . the research endeavors to examine the
   potential benefits of ai to empower women in the food industry and foster a
   more equitable and inclusive environment
DE artificial intelligence; culinary culture; customized diet; demand
   forecasting; food industry; sustainable packaging; sustainable technologies
ID agri-food; food ingredients; culinary culture; customized diet; demand
   forecasting; diverse applications; food industries; performance standards;
   research papers; sustainable packaging; sustainable technology; vegetable
   beverages; food industry

---

UT 1465
AR Dhal SB, 2025, DISCOV APPL SCI, V7, DOI 10.1007/s42452-025-06472-w
TI Leveraging artificial intelligence and advanced food processing techniques
   for enhanced food safety, quality, and security: a comprehensive review
AU Dhal SB; Kar D
TC 148
SO DISCOV APPL SCI
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence is emerging as a transformative force in addressing
   the multifaceted challenges of food safety , food quality , and food
   security . this review synthesizes advancements in ai driven technologies ,
   such as machine learning , deep learning , natural language processing , and
   computer vision , and their applications across the food supply chain ,
   based on a comprehensive analysis of literature published from 1990 to 2024
   . ai enhances food safety through real time contamination detection ,
   predictive risk modeling , and compliance monitoring , reducing public
   health risks . it improves food quality by automating defect detection ,
   optimizing shelf life predictions , and ensuring consistency in taste ,
   texture , and appearance . furthermore , ai addresses food security by
   enabling resource efficient agriculture , yield forecasting , and supply
   chain optimization to ensure the availability and accessibility of
   nutritious food resources . this review also highlights the integration of
   ai with advanced food processing techniques such as high pressure processing
   , ultraviolet treatment , pulsed electric fields , cold plasma , and
   irradiation , which ensure microbial safety , extend shelf life , and
   enhance product quality . additionally , the integration of ai with emerging
   technologies such as the internet of things , blockchain , and ai powered
   sensors enables proactive risk management , predictive analytics , and
   automated quality control . by examining these innovations potential to
   enhance transparency , efficiency , and decision making within food systems
   , this review identifies current research gaps and proposes strategies to
   address barriers such as data limitations , model generalizability , and
   ethical concerns . these insights underscore the critical role of ai in
   advancing safer , higher quality , and more secure food systems , guiding
   future research and fostering sustainable food systems that benefit public
   health and consumer trust . this is a you . s . government work and not
   under copyright protection in the us . foreign copyright protection may
   apply 2025 .
DE artificial intelligence; blockchain; computer vision; deep learning; food
   quality; food safety; food security; internet of things; machine learning;
   natural language processing
ID deep learning; food preservatives; food safety; model predictive control;
   shelf life; surface discharges; blockchain; deep learning; food quality;
   food security; food system; food safety; language processing; machine
   learning; natural language processing; natural languages; risk management

---

UT 1466
AR [Anonymous], 2023, APTISI TRANS TECHNOPRENEURSH, V5, P1, DOI
   10.34306/att.v5i2sp.334
TI Predicting Patient Satisfaction Levels Using Artificial Intelligence
   Technology for Food Service at ERI Soedewo RSPAD Gatot Soebroto
TC 0
SO APTISI TRANS TECHNOPRENEURSH
PY 2023
AB satisfaction is one aspect that assesses the quality of health services ,
   namely in serving food in hospitals . the purpose of this study was to
   describe the level of patient satisfaction with food at the eri soedewo
   pavilion , gatot soebroto army hospital . the results of a study of 47
   patients in the eri soedewo pavilion in june 2021 showed that the remaining
   food of patients who consumed 20 % , 35 patients were categorized as good ,
   while 12 patients had the remaining food consumed 20 % , which was
   classified as not good . therefore , researchers are interested in
   conducting this research . methods : the type of research used is
   observational with a cross sectional design . samples were taken using
   purposive sampling with inclusion criteria : male and female inpatients aged
   18 years admitted for at least two days , patients who received oral food
   from the hospital , were not illiterate and could communicate , had signed
   the psp form and were willing as research samples . the model in this study
   was 47 patients taken in june 2021 . results : based on the sample size
   calculation , 47 people were determined . the results of the level of
   patient satisfaction at the eri soedewo pavilion , gatot soebroto army
   hospital , found that the performance of food serving has not met the
   minimum standard set , namely 90 % . with a higher percentage of reality ,
   namely with an average of 82.0 % , the average expectation percentage is
   76.7 % . however , suppose the real results are compared with patient
   expectations . in that case , the result is that the patient is satisfied
   with the services provided . artificial intelligence can assess medical data
   , food preferences , and patient feedback to improve food serving
   performance . suhermi1 , rinto , singgih , sri watini , nova ramadhona .
DE artificial intelligence; food service; inpatients; satisfaction level

---

UT 1467
AR Kutyauripo I, 2023, J AGRIC FOOD RES, V11, DOI 10.1016/j.jafr.2023.100502
TI Artificial intelligence applications in the agrifood sectors
AU Kutyauripo I; Rushambwa M; Chiwazi L
TC 141
SO J AGRIC FOOD RES
PY 2023
AB food security is one of the priorities of every country in the world .
   however , different factors are making it difficult to meet global targets
   on food security . some unprecedented shocks are encumbering food security
   at the global level . various interventions have been applied toward food
   security and artificial intelligence is one of the modern methods that is
   being used in various stages of the food system . in this paper , the
   application of artificial intelligence in the whole food production
   ecosystem ranging from crop production , livestock production , harvesting /
   slaughtering , postharvest management , food processing , food distribution
   , food consumption and food waste management is assessed . the objective of
   this research is to assess the application of artificial intelligence
   systems in all the stages of food systems . a systematic review was
   conducted by analyzing 110 articles after the screening of 450 articles
   based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria . the results indicated that
   various artificial intelligence algorithms are being applied to all the
   stages of the food system from crop / livestock production up to food or
   agro waste management
DE agriculture; artificial intelligence; food processing; food systems

---

UT 1468
AR Ma L, 2023, APPL ENV MICROBIOL, V89, DOI 10.1128/aem.01828-22
TI Accelerating the Detection of Bacteria in Food Using Artificial Intelligence
   and Optical Imaging
AU Ma L; Yi J; Wisuthiphaet N; Earles M; Nitin N
TC 67
SO APPL ENV MICROBIOL
PY 2023
AB in assessing food microbial safety , the presence of escherichia coli is a
   critical indicator of fecal contamination . however , conventional detection
   methods require the isolation of bacterial macrocolonies for biochemical or
   genetic characterization , which takes a few days and is labor intensive .
   in this study , we show that the real time object detection and
   classification algorithm you only look once version 4 ( yolov4 ) can
   accurately identify the presence of e . coli at the microcolony stage after
   a 3-h cultivation . integrating with phase contrast microscopic imaging ,
   yolov4 discriminated e . coli from seven other common foodborne bacterial
   species with an average precision of 94 % . this approach also enabled the
   rapid quantification of e . coli concentrations over 3 orders of magnitude
   with an r2 of 0.995. for romaine lettuce spiked with e . coli ( 10 to 103
   cfu / g ) , the trained yolov4 detector had a false negative rate of less
   than 10 % . this approach accelerates analysis and avoids manual result
   determination , which has the potential to be applied as a rapid and user
   friendly bacterial sensing approach in food industries . 2022 ma et al .
DE foodborne pathogen; machine learning; microbial indicator; microcolony;
   multispecies classification; rapid detection
ID artificial intelligence; bacteria; colony count microbial; escherichia coli;
   food contamination; food microbiology; food safety; humans; optical imaging;
   food microbiology; food safety; machine learning; object detection; e coli;
   foodborne pathogens; machine learning; microbial indicators; microbial
   safety; microcolonies; multispecies; multispecies classification; optical
   imaging; rapid detection; artificial intelligence; bacterium; bioindicator;
   classification; detection method; food industry; host-pathogen interaction;
   imaging method; microbial activity; pathogenicity; artificial intelligence;
   bacterial count; bacterium; escherichia coli; fluorescence imaging; food
   contamination; food control; food safety; human; escherichia coli

---

UT 1469
AR Ubaidillah A, 2023, PROCEEDING - IEEE TECHNOL INT SEMIN ITIS, DOI
   10.1109/ITIS59651.2023.10420140
TI Design of Formalin Detection System in Food Based on Artificial Neural
   Network
AU Ubaidillah A; Wibisono KA; As'ari M; Kholida SI
TC 0
SO PROCEEDING - IEEE TECHNOL INT SEMIN ITIS
PY 2023
AB most snacks and food today use a lot of preservatives so that they last
   longer and do not spoil quickly . the most commonly used preservative is
   formalin . formalin is a toxic chemical that is often used as a preservative
   for biological samples such as preserving corpses . the existence of
   formalin is difficult to detect by the five human senses . testing for
   formalin is usually carried out in a laboratory , so it is not easy for the
   public to do it . therefore , this study proposes to design a tool to detect
   formalin based on a microcontroller . this tool is very important because it
   contributes to being able to test food with formalin practically ,
   effectively , and quickly . it uses an artificial neural network ( ann )
   method and it uses a gas sensor type hcho wsp2110 and type mq 138 to detect
   steam produced from heating . the results showed that the mq 138 sensor is
   more sensitive to formalin than the hcho wsp2110 . the percentage of success
   of the tool in detecting the presence of formalin in food was 86.67 %
DE artificial neural network; food; formalin detection; hcho wsp2110; mq-138
ID electronic nose; neural networks; artificial neural network methods;
   biological samples; detection system; formalin detection; gas-sensors; hcho
   wsp2110; human sense; mq-138; toxic chemicals; formaldehyde

---

UT 1470
AR Kamatchi S, 2024, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P390, DOI 10.1145/3675888.3676076
TI Comparative Analysis of GPT-2 and LSTM Models for Indian Recipe Generation:
   A Machine Learning Approach
AU Kamatchi S; Reddy AB; Hayavadan STP; Raksha BS
TC 4
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2024
AB traditional recipe instructions often lack personalization , impeding
   culinary exploration and causing confusion among home cooks . in response ,
   we introduce an ai powered recipe instructions generator and advisor aimed
   at revolutionizing the cooking experience . by leveraging natural language
   processing , machine learning , and the generative pre trained transformer 2
   ( gpt2 ) model , our system analyzes ingredients , user preferences , and
   real time cooking data to provide tailored step by step instructions and
   expert advice . incorporating fuzzy logic and lstm models , our solution
   adapts instructions to diverse culinary preferences and dietary needs . the
   system empowers users to explore new recipes confidently while minimizing
   food waste and enhancing culinary creativity . our analysis demonstrates a
   substantial increase in user satisfaction and culinary empowerment ,
   highlighting the trans formative potential of ai in making cooking more
   personalized , accessible , and enjoyable . this project marks a significant
   step toward a future where ai driven technology enriches the culinary
   journey for all enthusiasts
DE gpt-2 model; lstm model; machine learning models; natural language
   processing; recipe generation
ID adversarial machine learning; contrastive learning; cooking; food waste;
   natural language processing systems; comparative analyzes; gpt-2 model;
   language processing; lstm model; machine learning approaches; machine
   learning models; natural language processing; natural languages;
   personalizations; recipe generation; food ingredients

---

UT 1471
AR Adeyomoye O, 2023, SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF, P19, DOI
   10.1201/9781003207955-2
TI Sensing and Artificial Intelligence for Food Packaging
AU Adeyomoye O; Adetunji CO; Olaniyan OT; Olayinka AS; Akinbo O
TC 3
SO SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF
PY 2023
AB as the world population grows exponentially , food industries are saddled
   with the responsibility of feeding the ever increasing world population .
   food production , distribution , and storage , have continued to increase
   consumer demand for quality packaged food with improved shelf life . food
   industries are presently utilizing active and intelligent packaging as
   solution for production , logistics for distribution , mitigating the need
   and deleterious impact of preservatives , and improving the quality of food
   . biosensors , signal analysis and artificial sensing have widely been
   adopted for food processing and monitoring of food quality and authenticity
   . artificial intelligence has brought about novel food packaging materials
   that provide healthy food to final consumers . the combination of
   antimicrobial and antifouling agents , mechanical and thermal protection ,
   along with packaging materials allow biosensors to detect spoilage and
   growth of pathogens , as well as to monitor the storage conditions of food
   produce . this chapter provides an overview of biosensors and artificial
   intelligence and their application in food processing and packaging

---

UT 1472
AR Rokhva S, 2024, FOOD HUMANIT, V3, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2024.100378
TI Computer vision in the food industry: Accurate, real-time, and automatic
   food recognition with pretrained MobileNetV2
AU Rokhva S; Teimourpour B; Soltani AH
TC 30
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2024
AB in contemporary society , the application of artificial intelligence for
   automatic food recognition offers substantial potential for nutrition
   tracking , reducing food waste , and enhancing productivity in food
   production and consumption scenarios . cutting edge technologies such as
   computer vision and deep learning are highly beneficial , enabling machines
   to learn automatically , thereby facilitating automatic visual recognition .
   despite some research in this field , the challenge of achieving accurate
   automatic food recognition quickly remains a significant research gap . some
   models have been developed and implemented , but maintaining high
   performance swiftly , with low computational cost and low access to
   expensive hardware accelerators , is still an area that needs further
   exploration and improvement . this study employs the pre trained mobilenetv2
   model , which is cost efficient and fast , for automatic food recognition on
   the public food11 dataset , comprising 16643 images . it also utilizes
   various tools and techniques such as dataset understanding , transfer
   learning , data augmentation , regularization , dynamic learning rate ,
   hyperparameter tuning , and consideration of images in different sizes to
   cut time and enhance the model s performance and robustness . these
   techniques aid in choosing appropriate metrics , achieving better
   performance , avoiding overfitting and accuracy fluctuations , speeding up
   the model , and increasing the generalization of findings , making the study
   and its results applicable to real world applications . despite mobilenetv2s
   simpler structure and fewer trainable parameters compared to some deep dense
   models in the deep learning area , it quickly achieved approximately 92.97 %
   accuracy . this underscores the model s potential for implementation in real
   world applications , which is the main intention of this study
DE computer vision; deep learning; food recognition; image size; mobilenetv2;
   transfer learning

---

UT 1473
AR Zhang Y/5, 2023, FUSION, V98, DOI 10.1016/j.inffus.2023.101859
TI Deep learning in food category recognition
AU Zhang Y/5; Deng L; Zhu H; Wang W; Ren Z; Zhou Q; Lu S; Sun S; Zhu Z/1;
   Gorriz JM; Wang S/2
TC 336
SO FUSION
PY 2023
AB integrating artificial intelligence with food category recognition has been
   a field of interest for research for the past few decades . it is
   potentially one of the next steps in revolutionizing human interaction with
   food . the modern advent of big data and the development of data oriented
   fields like deep learning have provided advancements in food category
   recognition . with increasing computational power and ever larger food
   datasets , the approach s potential has yet to be realized . this survey
   provides an overview of methods that can be applied to various food category
   recognition tasks , including detecting type , ingredients , quality , and
   quantity . we survey the core components for constructing a machine learning
   system for food category recognition , including datasets , data
   augmentation , hand crafted feature extraction , and machine learning
   algorithms . we place a particular focus on the field of deep learning ,
   including the utilization of convolutional neural networks , transfer
   learning , and semi supervised learning . we provide an overview of relevant
   studies to promote further developments in food category recognition for
   research and industrial applications
DE computer vision; convolutional neural network; data augmentation; deep
   learning; food category recognition; machine learning; semi-supervised
   learning; transfer learning
ID computer vision; convolution; convolutional neural networks; industrial
   research; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine components;
   transfer learning; category recognition; computational power; convolutional
   neural network; data augmentation; deep learning; food category recognition;
   humaninteraction; machine learning; semi-supervised learning; transfer
   learning; deep learning

---

UT 1474
AR Shen C, 2024, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V23, DOI 10.1111/1541-4337.70054
TI Machine vision combined with deep learning–based approaches for food
   authentication: An integrative review and new insights
AU Shen C; Wang R/4; Nawazish H; Wang B/1; Cai K; Xu B/1
TC 41
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2024
AB food fraud undermines consumer trust , creates economic risk , and
   jeopardizes human health . therefore , it is essential to develop efficient
   technologies for rapid and reliable analysis of food quality and safety for
   food authentication . machine visionbased methods have emerged as promising
   solutions for the rapid and nondestructive analysis of food authenticity and
   quality . the industry 4.0 revolution has introduced new trends in this
   field , including the use of deep learning ( dl ) , a subset of artificial
   intelligence , which demonstrates robust performance and generalization
   capabilities , effectively extracting features , and processing extensive
   data . this paper reviews recent advances in machine vision and various dl
   based algorithms for food authentication , including dl and lightweight dl ,
   used for food authenticity analysis such as adulteration identification ,
   variety identification , freshness detection , and food quality
   identification by combining them with a machine vision system or with
   smartphones and portable devices . this review explores the limitations of
   machine vision and the challenges of dl , which include overfitting ,
   interpretability , accessibility , data privacy , algorithmic bias , and
   design and deployment of lightweight dls , and miniaturization of sensing
   devices . finally , future developments and trends in this field are
   discussed , including the development of real time detection systems that
   incorporate a combination of machine vision and dl methods and the expansion
   of databases . overall , the combination of vision based techniques and dl
   is expected to enable faster , more affordable , and more accurate food
   authentication methods . 2024 institute of food technologists .
DE deep learning; food authentication; food detection; food fraud; machine
   vision
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; deep learning; food analysis; food
   contamination; food quality; food safety; adversarial machine learning; deep
   learning; economic risks; food authentications; food authenticity; food
   detection; food fraud; food quality; human health; learning-based approach;
   machine vision; algorithm; artificial intelligence; deep learning; food
   analysis; food contamination; food quality; food safety; procedures; machine
   vision

---

UT 1475
AR Zhang Y/14, 2024, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V150, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104578
TI Advances in machine learning screening of food bioactive compounds
AU Zhang Y/14; Bao X; Zhu Y/2; Dai Z; Shen Q/1; Xue Y
TC 48
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB background : food contains abundant bioactive compounds that play a crucial
   role in human health . however , conventional methods for screening food
   bioactive compounds ( fbcs ) are expensive , time consuming , and labor
   intensive . machine learning ( ml ) techniques , offer an efficient and cost
   effective means to screen potential bioactive compounds , but their
   application and research in the food field are limited . scope and approach
   : in order to facilitate the effective screening of fbcs and to provide
   researchers with valuable insights , this paper presents the process of
   constructing ml models , including data preparation , molecular
   representation , ml algorithms selection , and evaluation methods , and
   highlights the progress of ml in screening fbcs with different bioactivities
   in recent years . furthermore , this paper puts forward the primary
   limitations and challenges and suggests future directions . key findings and
   conclusions : the research on using ml for screening fbcs has made some
   progress , especially for peptides with antioxidant and antihypertensive
   activities , as well as non peptidic compounds with hypoglycemic activity .
   different limitations and challenges exist in establishing ml models for
   different bioactivities . to ensure high quality ml models , each step of
   the modeling process needs to be carefully considered based on the actual
   situation . in the future , to further promote the application of ml in the
   food field , it is necessary to establish comprehensive databases of fbcs ,
   improve the quality and quantity of datasets , enhance the interpretability
   of deep learning . integrate ml with other techniques . combine
   classification and regression models . comprehensively evaluate compounds
   from multiple aspects . and develop models that can predict multiple
   bioactivities
DE bioactive compounds; deep learning; food; machine learning; peptides
ID bioactivity; classification ( of information ); cost effectiveness; deep
   learning; learning systems; quality control; bioactive compounds;
   conventional methods; cost-effective means; data preparation; deep learning;
   human health; labour-intensive; machine learning models; machine learning
   techniques; machine learning; peptides

---

UT 1476
AR Miraei Ashtiani S-H, 2024, DRY TECHNOL, V42, P1240, DOI
   10.1080/07373937.2024.2356177
TI Toward intelligent food drying: Integrating artificial intelligence into
   drying systems
AU Miraei Ashtiani S-H; Martynenko A
TC 84
SO DRY TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) and its data driven counterpart , machine
   learning ( ml ) , are rapidly evolving disciplines with increasing
   applications in modeling , simulation , control , and optimization within
   the drying industry . this paper presents a comprehensive overview of
   progress made in ml from shallow to deep learning and its implications for
   food drying . theoretical foundations , advantages , and limitations of
   various ml approaches employed in this domain are explored . additionally ,
   advancements in ml models , particularly those enhanced by optimization
   algorithms , are reviewed . the review underscores the role of intelligent
   configuration of ml models , which affects their accuracy and ability to
   solve problems of high energy consumption , nutrient degradation , and
   uneven drying . drawing upon research achievements , integrating of ai
   models with real time measuring methods is discussed , enabling dynamic
   determination of optimal drying conditions and parameter adjustments . this
   integration facilitates automated decision making , reducing human errors
   and enhancing operational efficiency in food drying . moreover , ai models
   demonstrate proficiency in predicting drying times and analyzing energy
   usage patterns , thereby enabling optimization to minimize resource
   consumption while preserving product quality . finally , this paper
   identifies current obstacles in technology development and proposes novel
   research avenues for sustainable drying technologies
DE advanced process control; machine learning; real time monitoring;
   sustainable drying; technology roadmap
ID artificial intelligence; decision making; drying; energy consumption; food;
   models; optimization; process control; decision making; deep learning;
   energy utilization; process control; real time systems; advanced process
   control; drying systems; food drying; intelligence models; its data; machine
   learning models; machine learning; real time monitoring; sustainable drying;
   technology roadmaps; drying

---

UT 1477
AR Mustafa AS, 2022, BULL ELECTR ENG INF, V11, P2922, DOI
   10.11591/eei.v11i5.4007
TI Nutrition information estimation from food photos using machine learning
   based on multiple datasets
AU Mustafa AS; Baiee WR
TC 11
SO BULL ELECTR ENG INF
PY 2022
AB bodyweight , blood pressure , and cholesterol are all risk variables that
   can aid people in making educated decisions regarding their health promotion
   activities . food choices are among the most effective methods for
   preventing chronic illnesses , including heart disease , diabetes , stroke ,
   and some malignancies . because various meals give varying amounts of energy
   and minerals , good eating necessitates keeping track of the nutrients we
   ingest . furthermore , there is a paucity of information on whether
   understanding food constituents might aid in more accurate nutrition
   calculations . therefore , this research suggests processing food images on
   social media to anticipate the contents of each food and extracting
   nutrition information for each food image to serve as healthy implicit
   feedback to take advantage of the rapid accumulation of rich photos on
   social media . the proposed methodology is a framework based on a machine
   learning model for predicting food ingredients . we also compute critical
   health metrics for each ingredient and combine them to obtain nutrition data
   for the food . the result revealed a promising way of extracting food
   components and nutrition information . compared with other researchs , our
   proposed prediction and attribute extraction strategy achieves a remarkable
   accuracy of 85 % . 2022 , institute of advanced engineering and science
DE food ingredients; food photos; machine learning; nutrition information; yelp
   dataset

---

UT 1478
AR Li S, 2024, J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V24, P486, DOI
   10.16429/j.1009-7848.2024.08.043
TI Application of Machine Learning Algorithms in Food Odor Characterization;
   [机器学习算法在食品气味表征中的应用]
AU Li S; Chai C; Liu J/5
TC 1
SO J CHIN INST FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB the objective characterization of food odor is important for the
   optimization of food production process and quality evaluation . however ,
   the complexity of the food odor formation mechanism and its complicated
   composition , coupled with the fact that the odor evaluation process is
   susceptible to a variety of factors such as environmental , psychological
   and perception modes , make it necessary to deal with a large amount of high
   dimensional and complex information in the characterization of food odors ,
   which requires the use of tools with powerful data processing capabilities .
   a long with the rapid development of artificial intelligence , computer
   science and big data technology , machine learning has powerful data
   processing capability , it has become possible to characterize food odors
   using machine learning , and the implementation of this process relies
   heavily on machine learning algorithms . in this paper , the application of
   various machine learning methods in food odor characterization was
   summarized , and the advantages and problems to be solved in using machine
   learning methods for food odor characterization were pointed out . finally ,
   the future development direction of machine learning algorithms applied to
   food odor characterization was foreseen . 2024 chinese institute of food
   science and technology
DE algorithms; food; machine learning; odor characterization
ID adversarial machine learning; food production; machine learning algorithms;
   machine learning methods; machine learning; odor characterization;
   optimizations; process evaluation; processing capability; production
   process; production quality; food ingredients

---

UT 1479
AR Bora DJ, 2024, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT61001.2024.10723961
TI Enhanced Food Image Classification using CNN with Background Removal and
   Contrast Stretching
AU Bora DJ; Haarisah O; Gomathi M; Aravind M
TC 1
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2024
AB this research explores the utilization of cnns to improve the classification
   accuracy of improvised food images . it initiates a detailed process ,
   starting from image acquisition and moving through crucial preliminary
   processing steps including shrinking , removing backgrounds , and enhancing
   contrast using techniques like imadjust . the cnn architecture is then used
   to precisely detect and extract features from these previously processed
   images . a vast range of food items are included in the classification ,
   from apple pie to fish and chips , with the primary evaluation criterion
   being the model s accuracy . notably , the model s performance demonstrates
   significant enhancement , highlighting the efficacy of the cnn based
   methodology in accurately classifying diverse improvised food images . this
   research contributes novel exploring viewpoints within the domains
   particularly in the dynamic terrain of varied food products , of computer
   vision and image categorization
DE background removal using a diverse food image dataset; data augmentation;
   employing convolutional neural networks for food classification with
   preprocessing
ID background removal; background removal using a diverse food image dataset;
   classification accuracy; contrast stretching; convolutional neural network;
   data augmentation; employing convolutional neural network for food
   classification with preprocessing; food image; image datasets; images
   classification; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1480
AR Rashmi D, 2024, INTERACT DYN DASHBOARD DES PRINC, P254, DOI
   10.1201/9781003542735-14
TI Nourish net: Machine learning innovations in food recognition and calorie
   monitoring
AU Rashmi D; Poorani M
TC 0
SO INTERACT DYN DASHBOARD DES PRINC
PY 2024
AB this study is one of many that investigate the relationship between
   determining the nutritional ingredients in food and calculating the calories
   using data analysis utilizing machine learning techniques . experiments
   using real world data demonstrate how accurately and effectively our
   technology enhances performance . furthermore , our system will suggest
   foods for a few different age groups . our research can pinpoint the dietary
   deficiencies that may have an impact on our bodies and suggests foods that
   may be helpful for those age groups recovery . the proposed method is put
   into practi practice utilizing cnn machine learning models to attain high
   accuracy and minimal time complexity . the invention of an autonomous food
   recognition system offers a number of intriguing uses , including managing
   food waste , advertising , calorie estimation , and tracking daily dietary
   intake . for more efficiency in this research , we are using the cnn model .
   due to the availability of multifood photos , which must be cropped before
   processing , the indian food recipes database is used for the experiments

---

UT 1481
AR Kim S/2, 2023, APPL SCI, V13, DOI 10.3390/app13010346
TI A Study on the Prediction of Electrical Energy in Food Storage Using Machine
   Learning
AU Kim S/2
TC 9
SO APPL SCI
PY 2023
AB featured application : in the future , the application of this study can be
   used to optimize the electrical energy of various food processing machines
   using machine learning technology . this study discusses methods for the
   sustainability of freezers used in frozen storage methods known as long term
   food storage methods . freezing preserves the quality of food for a long
   time . however , it is inevitable to use a freezer that uses a large amount
   of electricity to store food with this method . to maintain the quality of
   food , lower temperatures are required , and therefore more electrical
   energy must be used . in this study , machine learning was performed using
   data obtained through a freezer test , and an optimal inference model was
   obtained with this data . if the inference model is applied to the selection
   of freezer control parameters , it turns out that optimal food storage is
   possible using less electrical energy . in this paper , a method for
   obtaining a dataset for machine learning in a deep freezer and the process
   of performing slp and mlp machine learning through the obtained dataset are
   described . in addition , a method for finding the optimal efficiency is
   presented by comparing the performances of the inference models obtained in
   each method . the application of such a development method can reduce
   electrical energy in the food manufacturing equipment related industry , and
   accordingly it will be possible to achieve carbon emission reductions
DE artificial intelligence; electrical energy optimization; electrical energy
   prediction; food storage; machine learning

---

UT 1482
AR Trollman H, 2024, DISCOV FOOD, V4, DOI 10.1007/s44187-024-00090-y
TI Feature extraction for artificial intelligence enabled food supply chain
   failure mode prediction
AU Trollman H
TC 17
SO DISCOV FOOD
PY 2024
AB the farm to fork strategy of the european commission is a contingency plan
   aimed at always ensuring a sufficient and varied supply of safe , nutritious
   , affordable , and sustainable food to citizens . the learning from previous
   crises such as covid 19 indicates that proactive strategies need to span
   numerous levels both within and external to food networks , requiring both
   vertical and horizontal collaborations . however , there is a lack of
   systematic performance management techniques for ripple effects in food
   supply chains that would enable the prediction of failure modes . supervised
   learning algorithms are commonly used for prediction ( classification )
   problems , but machine learning struggles with large data sets and complex
   phenomena . consequently , this research proposes a manual approach to
   feature extraction for artificial intelligence with the aim of reducing
   dimensionality for more efficient algorithm performance , and improved
   interpretability / explainability for benefits in terms of ethics and
   managerial decision making . the approach is based on qualitative
   comparative analysis informed by in depth case knowledge which is refined
   through boolean logic , yielding solutions that reflect complex causality as
   opposed to single failure point modes . two case exemplars are presented to
   support the proposed framework for implementation : export readiness of
   dairy supply chains under the russia ukraine war , and egg supply chain
   sustainability during covid 19 lockdown in the united kingdom
DE artificial intelligence; covid-19; dairy 40; export potential; feature
   extraction; food supply chain; industry 50; qualitative comparative analysis
   ( qca ); ripple effect; russia-ukraine war; sustainable supply chain
ID classification ( of information ); complex networks; decision making;
   extraction; feature extraction; food supply; forecasting; learning
   algorithms; supply chains; dairy 40; export potential; features extraction;
   food supply chain; industry 50; qualitative comparative analyze; qualitative
   comparative analysis; ripple effects; russia-ukraine war; sustainable supply
   chains; ukraine; covid-19

---

UT 1483
AR Razavi R, 2023, J MED INTERNET RES, V25, DOI 10.2196/45332
TI Predicting Unreported Micronutrients from Food Labels: Machine Learning
   Approach
AU Razavi R; Xue G
TC 19
SO J MED INTERNET RES
PY 2023
AB background : micronutrient deficiencies represent a major global health
   issue , with over 2 billion individuals experiencing deficiencies in
   essential vitamins and minerals . food labels provide consumers with
   information regarding the nutritional content of food items and have been
   identified as a potential tool for improving diets . however , due to
   governmental regulations and the physical limitations of the labels , food
   labels often lack comprehensive information about the vitamins and minerals
   present in foods . as a result , information about most of the
   micronutrients is absent from existing food labels . objective : this paper
   aims to examine the possibility of using machine learning algorithms to
   predict unreported micronutrients such as vitamin a ( retinol ) , vitamin c
   , vitamin b1 ( thiamin ) , vitamin b2 ( riboflavin ) , vitamin b3 ( niacin )
   , vitamin b6 , vitamin b12 , vitamin e ( alpha tocopherol ) , vitamin k ,
   and minerals such as magnesium , zinc , phosphorus , selenium , manganese ,
   and copper from nutrition information provided on existing food labels . if
   unreported micronutrients can be predicted with acceptable accuracies from
   existing food labels using machine learning predictive models , such models
   can be integrated into mobile apps to provide consumers with additional
   micronutrient information about foods and help them make more informed diet
   decisions . methods : data from the food and nutrient database for dietary
   studies ( fndds ) data set , representing a total of 5624 foods , were used
   to train a diverse set of machine learning classification and regression
   algorithms to predict unreported vitamins and minerals from existing food
   label data . for each model , hyperparameters were adjusted , and the models
   were evaluated using repeated cross validation to ensure that the reported
   results were not subject to overfitting . results : according to the results
   , while predicting the exact quantity of vitamins and minerals is shown to
   be challenging , with regression r2 varying in a wide range from 0.28 ( for
   magnesium ) to 0.92 ( for manganese ) , the classification models can
   accurately predict the category ( ' low , ' ' medium , ' or ' high ' ) level
   of all minerals and vitamins with accuracies exceeding 0.80. the highest
   classification accuracies for specific micronutrients are achieved for
   vitamin b12 ( 0.94 ) and phosphorus ( 0.94 ) , while the lowest are for
   vitamin e ( 0.81 ) and selenium ( 0.83 ) . conclusions : this study
   demonstrates the feasibility of predicting unreported micronutrients from
   existing food labels using machine learning algorithms . the results show
   that the approach has the potential to significantly improve consumer
   knowledge about the micronutrient content of the foods they consume .
   integrating these predictive models into mobile apps can enhance their
   accessibility and engagement with consumers . the implications of this
   research for public health are noteworthy , underscoring the potential of
   technology to augment consumers understanding of the micronutrient content
   of their diets while also facilitating the tracking of food intake and
   providing personalized recommendations based on the micronutrient content
   and individual preferences . rouzbeh razavi , guisen xue .
DE algorithm; diet; food; food label; health app; machine learning; mhealth;
   micronutrient; micronutrient deficiencies; mobile app; mobile health;
   nutrient; nutrition; nutrition mobile applications; predict; predictive
   model
ID diet; humans; magnesium; manganese; micronutrients; phosphorus; selenium;
   thiamine; trace elements; vitamin a; vitamin b 12; vitamins; alpha
   tocopherol; ascorbic acid; calcium; carbohydrate; copper; cyanocobalamin;
   fat; iron; magnesium; manganese; mineral; nicotinamide; nicotinic acid;
   phosphorus; potassium; protein; pyridoxine; retinol; riboflavin; selenium;
   sodium; sugar; thiamine; trace element; vitamin; vitamin b group; vitamin d;
   vitamin k group; zinc; selenium; trace element; algorithm; article;
   artificial neural network; brain; chronic disease; classification; consumer;
   cross validation; decision tree; feasibility study; food intake; food
   packaging; human; k-nearest neighbor; logistic regression analysis; machine
   learning; micronutrient intake; motivation; nutrient; nutritional
   deficiency; prediction; predictive model; random forest; regression model;
   support vector machine; validation process; vitamin blood level; diet

---

UT 1484
AR Sarku R, 2023, AGRIC, V13, DOI 10.3390/agriculture13102037
TI The Application of Artificial Intelligence Models for Food Security: A
   Review
AU Sarku R; Clemen UA; Clemen T
TC 35
SO AGRIC
PY 2023
AB emerging technologies associated with artificial intelligence ( ai ) have
   enabled improvements in global food security situations . however , there is
   a limited understanding regarding the extent to which stakeholders are
   involved in ai modeling research for food security purposes . this study
   systematically reviews the existing literature to bridge the knowledge gap
   in ai and food security , focusing on software modeling perspectives . the
   study found the application of ai models to examine various indicators of
   food security across six continents , with most studies conducted in sub
   saharan africa . while research organizations conducting ai modeling were
   predominantly based in europe or the americas , their study communities were
   in the global south . external funders also supported ai modeling research
   on food security through international universities and research institutes
   , although some collaborations with local organizations and external
   partners were identified . the analysis revealed three patterns in the
   application of ai models for food security research : ( 1 ) the exclusive
   utilization of ai models to assess food security situations , ( 2 )
   stakeholder involvement in some aspects of the ai modeling process , and ( 3
   ) stakeholder involvement in ai modeling for food security through an
   iterative process . overall , studies on ai models for food security were
   primarily experimental and lacked real life implementation of the results
   with stakeholders . consequently , this study concluded that research on ai
   , which incorporates feedback and / or the implementation of research
   outcomes for stakeholders , can contribute to learning and enhance the
   validity of the models in addressing food security challenges
DE artificial intelligence; food security; funding; global south; machine
   learning

---

UT 1485
AR Hernández-Hernández DJ, 2023, NUTR, V10, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2023.1231873
TI Machine learning accurately predicts food exchange list and the exchangeable
   portion
AU Hernández-Hernández DJ; Perez-Lizaur AB; Palacios-González B; Morales-Luna G
TC 5
SO NUTR
PY 2023
AB introduction : food exchange lists ( fels ) are a user friendly tool
   developed to help individuals aid healthy eating habits and follow a
   specific diet plan . given the rapidly increasing number of new products or
   access to new foods , one of the biggest challenges for fels is being
   outdated . supervised machine learning algorithms could be a tool that
   facilitates this process and allows for updated fels the present study aimed
   to generate an algorithm to predict food classification and calculate the
   equivalent portion . methods : data mining techniques were used to generate
   the algorithm , which consists of processing and analyzing the information
   to find patterns , trends , or repetitive rules that explain the behavior of
   the data in a food database after performing this task . it was decided to
   approach the problem from a vector formulation ( through 9 nutrient
   dimensions ) that led to proposals for classifiers such as spherical k means
   ( skm ) , and by developing this idea , it was possible to smooth the limits
   of the classifier with the help of a multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) which
   were compared with two other algorithms of machine learning , these being
   random forest and xgboost . results : the algorithm proposed in this study
   could classify and calculate the equivalent portion of a single or a list of
   foods . the algorithm allows the categorization of more than one thousand
   foods with a confidence level of 97 % at the first three places . also , the
   algorithm indicates which foods exceed the limits established in sodium ,
   sugar , and / or fat content and show their equivalents . discussion :
   accurate and robust fels could improve implementation and adherence to the
   recommended diet . compared with manual categorization and calculation ,
   machine learning approaches have several advantages . machine learning
   reduces the time needed for manual food categorization and equivalent
   portion calculation of many food products . since it is possible to access
   food composition databases of various populations , our algorithm could be
   adapted and applied in other databases , offering an even greater diversity
   of regional products and foods . in conclusion , machine learning is a
   promising method for automation in generating fels . this study provides
   evidence of a large scale , accurate real time processing algorithm that can
   be useful for designing meal plans tailored to the foods consumed by the
   population . our model allowed us not only to distinguish and classify foods
   within a group or subgroup but also to perform the calculation of an
   equivalent food . as a neural network , this model could be trained with
   other food bases and thus improve its predictive capacity . although the
   performance of the skm model was lower compared to other types of
   classifiers , our model allows selecting an equivalent food not from a group
   previously classified by machine learning but with a fully interpretable
   algorithm such as cosine similarity for comparing food
DE artificial neural networks; equivalent portion; exchangeable portion; food
   classification; nutrient composition

---

UT 1486
AR Thatikonda R, 2024, INT J INTELL ENG SYST, V17, P674, DOI
   10.22266/ijies2024.1031.51
TI Deep Learning based Robust Food Supply Chain Enabled Effective Management
   with Blockchain
AU Thatikonda R; Thota R; Tatikonda R; Bhuvanesh A
TC 1
SO INT J INTELL ENG SYST
PY 2024
AB the supply chain for agriculture is heavily involved in daily life . while
   farmers are focusing on maximizing their profits , product safety is given
   greater consideration . furthermore , the production of agricultural
   products is dynamic , making it difficult and time consuming to track their
   production and distribution . with regard to these circumstances , we
   suggest a safe framework built on blockchain technology for tracking and
   controlling the supply of pulses combined with factory storage capacity .
   analysis is done on production , shipping , penalty , and storage costs .
   the alexnet architecture is suggested in order to increase profitability and
   manage production to improve storage . this helps to supply the products and
   categorizes the retailers needs properly . a simulation is run , and the
   robustness of the suggested work is evaluated by contrasting it with various
   methods such as supply chain management ( scm ) , fully cnn , and deep
   reinforcement learning with supply chain management ( dr scm ) . the methods
   such as scm , fcn , dr scm and proposed work provided the accuracy levels of
   80 % , 85 % , 88 % and 96.1 % due to 10000th episodes . the results
   demonstrate that the suggested effort boosts production and profitability .
   ( 2024 ) , ( intelligent network and systems society )
DE agri-products; alexnet; blockchain; secured; supply chain

---

UT 1487
AR Yerragudipadu S, 2023, E3S WEB CONF, V391, DOI 10.1051/e3sconf/202339101089
TI An Efficient Novel Approach on Machine Learning Paradigmsfor Food Delivery
   Company through Demand ForecastIng in societal community
AU Yerragudipadu S; Gurram VR; Rayapudi NS; Bingi B; Gollapalli L;
   Peddapatlolla U
TC 9
SO E3S WEB CONF
PY 2023
AB a food delivery business must be able to accurately forecast demand on a
   daily and weekly basis since it deals with a lot of perishable raw
   components . a warehouse that keeps too much inventory runs the danger of
   wasting items , whereas a warehouse that maintains too little inventory runs
   the risk of running out of stock , which might lead consumers to switch to
   your competitors . planning for purchasing is essential because most raw
   materials are perishable and delivered on a weekly basis . for this issue to
   be resolved , demand forecasting is crucial . with the aid of historical
   data driven predictive research , demand forecasting determines and
   forecasts future consumer demand for a good or service . by predicting
   future sales and revenues , demand forecasting assists the organization in
   making more educated supply decisions . regression methods like linear
   regression , decision trees , and xgboost are used to overcome this issue .
   2023 edp sciences

---

UT 1488
AR Saraf S, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V650 LNNS, P681, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-99-0838-7_58
TI Calorie Measurement for Raw Vegan Diet Using Deep Learning Networks
AU Saraf S; Bagaria RK; Kuresan H; Dhanalakshmi S
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB one of the essential needs of every living thing on earth is food . people
   are getting increasingly sensitive to their diets today , all around the
   world . the fight against obesity , weight gain , diabetes , etc . requires
   accurate methods for measuring food and energy intake . an innovative and
   practical solution that helps users / patients track their food consumption
   and collect dietary data might give us the most insight into long term
   prevention and efficient treatment programs . in this post , we offer a
   calorie measuring method that can help patients and medical professionals
   fight diseases caused by food . the user can snap a photo of the food and
   instantly determine how many calories were consumed thanks to our suggested
   method . we classify 80 high resolution food photos into each class using
   deep convolutional neural networks to train the model and precisely identify
   the food components in the user s camera taken image . we deployed faster r
   cnn algorithms to identify food items and label them appropriately
DE calorie measurement; convolution neural network; deep learning; deep neural
   network; faster r-cnn; food item recognition
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; food supply; learning systems;
   calorie measurement; convolution neural network; deep learning; fast r-cnn;
   food item recognition; item recognition; learning network; living things;
   vegan diets; weight gain; deep neural networks

---

UT 1489
AR Sammer M, 2024, INT J COMPUT INTELL SYST, V17, DOI
   10.1007/s44196-024-00656-9
TI AI-FEED: Prototyping an AI-Powered Platform for the Food Charity Ecosystem
AU Sammer M; Seong K; Olvera N; Gronseth SL; Anderson-Fletcher E; Jiao J; Reese
   A; Kakadiaris IA
TC 9
SO INT J COMPUT INTELL SYST
PY 2024
AB this paper presents the development and functionalities of the ai feed web
   based platform ( ai feed . ai ) , designed to address food and nutrition
   insecurity challenges within the food charity ecosystem . ai feed leverages
   advancements in artificial intelligence ( ai ) and blockchain technology to
   facilitate improved access to nutritious food and efficient resource
   allocation , aiming to reduce food waste and bolster community health . the
   initial phase involved comprehensive interviews with various stakeholders to
   gather insights into the ecosystem s unique challenges and requirements .
   this informed the design of four distinct modules in the ai feed platform ,
   each targeting the needs of one of four stakeholder groups ( food charities
   , donors , clients , and community leaders ) . prototyping and iterative
   feedback processes were integral to refining these modules . the food
   charity module assists charities in generating educational content and
   predicting client needs through ai driven tools . based on blockchain
   technology , the food donor module streamlines donation processes , enhances
   donor engagement , and provides donor recognition . the client module
   provides real time information on food charity services and offers a
   centralized repository for nutritional information . the platform includes a
   comprehensive mapping and proposal system for community leaders to
   strategically address local food insecurity issues . ai feed s integrated
   platform approach allows data sharing across modules , enhancing overall
   functionality and impact . the paper also discusses ethical considerations ,
   potential biases in ai systems , and the transformation of ai feed from a
   research project to a sustainable entity . the ai feed platform exemplifies
   the potential of interdisciplinary collaboration and technological
   innovation in addressing societal challenges , particularly in improving
   food security and community health
DE ai solutions for food charities; food charity ecosystem; healthy food
   access; non-profit blockchain application
ID artificial intelligence solution for food charity; blockchain; community
   health; efficient resource allocation; food charity ecosystem; healthy food
   access; healthy foods; non-profit; non-profit blockchain application; web-
   based platform

---

UT 1490
AR Lin Z, 2024, FOOD CHEM TOXICOL, V190, DOI 10.1016/j.fct.2024.114809
TI Preface to the special issue of Food and Chemical Toxicology on “New
   approach methodologies and machine learning in food safety and chemical risk
   assessment: Development of reproducible, open-source, and user-friendly
   tools for exposure, toxicokinetic, and toxicity assessments in the 21st
   century”
AU Lin Z; Basili D; Chou W-C
TC 9
SO FOOD CHEM TOXICOL
PY 2024
AB this special issue contains articles on applications of various new approach
   methodologies ( nams ) in the field of toxicology and risk assessment .
   these nams include in vitro high throughput screening , quantitative
   structure activity relationship ( qsar ) modeling , physiologically based
   pharmacokinetic ( pbpk ) modeling , network toxicology analysis , molecular
   docking simulation , omics , machine learning , deep learning , and '
   template and anchor ' multiscale computational modeling . these in vitro and
   in silico approaches complement each other and can be integrated together to
   support different applications of toxicology , including food safety
   assessment , dietary exposure assessment , chemical toxicity potency
   screening and ranking , chemical toxicity prediction , chemical
   toxicokinetic simulation , and to investigate the potential mechanisms of
   toxicities , as introduced further in selected articles in this special
   issue
DE artificial intelligence; high throughput screening; machine learning; new
   approach methodologies ( nams ); physiologically based pharmacokinetic (
   pbpk ) modeling; quantitative structure-activity relationship ( qsar )
   modeling
ID food safety; humans; machine learning; quantitative structure-activity
   relationship; risk assessment; toxicokinetics; toxicology; alternaria;
   antineoplastic activity; artificial intelligence; artificial neural network;
   binding affinity; carcinogenicity; computer model; cowpea; dietary exposure;
   dosimetry; drug absorption; drug development; drug interaction; drug
   metabolism; editorial; environmental exposure; food safety; lactation; limit
   of detection; machine learning; mass spectrometry; metabolomics; molecular
   docking; molecular dynamics; omics; oxidative stress; phytochemistry;
   pregnancy; quantitative structure-activity relation; risk assessment;
   simulation; structure-activity relation; support vector machine; toxicity;
   toxicity testing; toxicology; xenobiotic metabolism; human; procedures; risk
   assessment; toxicokinetics

---

UT 1491
AR Liu J/6, 2024, INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL ENG I-COSTE, DOI
   10.1109/i-COSTE63786.2024.11024658
TI Semantic Segmentation of Food Through Deep Learning: A Case Study
AU Liu J/6; Sinnott RO; Liu S
TC 0
SO INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL ENG I-COSTE
PY 2024
AB semantic segmentation of food images is a challenging task due to the
   intrinsic features inherent in food . high inter class similarity and high
   intra class differences give rise to segmentation algorithm challenges .
   however implementing a high performance model for food classification is
   beneficial for various scenarios in the food health field . due to the lack
   of easy access to large , pixel wide annotated datasets , research on
   semantic food image segmentation has hitherto been difficult . in this paper
   we present a performance evaluation of different deep learning based models
   applied to semantic food segmentation . two existing datasets are selected (
   foodseg103 and uecfoodpixcomplete ) and used as the basis for evaluation of
   model performance . specifically , we comprehensively evaluate four models :
   fully convolutional networks ( fcn ) , mask recurrent convolutional neural
   networks ( mask rcnn ) , deeplabv3 , and transformer based models ,
   segformer . our results show that fcn and segformer achieve the best overall
   accuracy at 85.9 % and 84.1 % when applied to the uecfoodpixcomplete dataset
   for food segmentation
DE deep learning; food; semantic segmentation
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; large
   datasets; semantic segmentation; semantic web; semantics; case-studies;
   class similarities; convolutional networks; deep learning; food image; inter
   class; intra class; intrinsic features; segmentation algorithms; semantic
   segmentation; food products

---

UT 1492
AR Srikanth N, 2024, INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INCET, DOI
   10.1109/INCET61516.2024.10593068
TI Deep Learning Driven Food Recognition and Calorie Estimation using Mobile
   Net Architecture
AU Srikanth N; Sagar K; Sravanthi Ch; Saranya K
TC 5
SO INT CONF EMERG TECHNOL INCET
PY 2024
AB obesity is a serious disease and it is on rise in now a days because food
   can be easily brought to our place without any efforts . as a result , the
   need for food increases and at same time curiosity regarding the nutritional
   content will also increases . as the food availability becomes easy along
   with that lots of health issues are also recorded due to overeating , so
   people become aware about their accurate diet plan to protect themselves
   from diseases which are caused due to obesity . the main aspect in any of
   the diet plan is nothing but the calories content within the food item . if
   the people accurately know the caloric information of the food they intake
   then people become cautious and tries to avoid it to protect their health .
   so to solve this problem we proposed a deep learning based technique to
   identify the calorie content present in the food image given by the user .
   this project promotes healthy eating habits through deep learning techniques
   . the primary goal of the project is to accurately identify different food
   items and provide real time predictions of the calories content . the
   proposed system leverages a mobile net based convolutional neural network (
   cnn ) , trained on a diverse and extensive of food images , to accurately
   recognize an extensive range of food items . the mobilenet architecture ,
   known for its efficiency and adaptability , is employed to enable real time
   food identification and maintaining greater accuracy levels with less
   parameters . moreover , the system incorporates accurate calorie estimation
   module that utilizes identified food items to estimate nutritional values
DE cnn; image processing; mobile net architecture
ID convolutional neural networks; deep learning; image processing; learning
   systems; nutrition; calorie estimations; convolutional neural network; diet
   plan; food availability; food cans; food image; images processing; mobile
   net architecture; mobile nets; net architecture; network architecture

---

UT 1493
AR Nassibi N, 2023, INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL, V14, P892, DOI
   10.14569/IJACSA.2023.01403101
TI Demand Forecasting Models for Food Industry by Utilizing Machine Learning
   Approaches
AU Nassibi N; Fasihuddin H; Hsairi L
TC 25
SO INTL J ADV COMPUT SCI APPL
PY 2023
AB continued global economic instability and uncertainty is causing
   difficulties in predicting sales . as a result , many sectors and decision
   makers are facing new , pressing challenges . in supply chain management ,
   the food industry is a key sector in which sales movement and the demand
   forecasting for food products are more difficult to predict . accurate sales
   forecasting helps to minimize stored and expired items across individual
   stores and , thus , reduces the potential loss of these expired products .
   to help food companies adapt to rapid changes and manage their supply chain
   more effectively , it is a necessary to utilize machine learning ( ml )
   approaches because of ml s ability to process and evaluate large amounts of
   data efficiently . this research compares two forecasting models for
   confectionery products from one of the largest distribution companies in
   saudi arabia in order to improve the company s ability to predict demand for
   their products using machine learning algorithms . to achieve this goal ,
   support vectors machine ( svm ) and long short term memory ( lstm )
   algorithms were utilized . in addition , the models were evaluated based on
   their performance in forecasting quarterly time series . both algorithms
   provided strong results when measured against the demand forecasting model ,
   but overall the lstm outperformed the svm . 2023 , international journal of
   advanced computer science and applications
DE demand forecasting; food industry; long short-term memory; machine learning;
   product sales; supply chain management; support vector machine
ID brain; decision making; food products; forecasting; learning systems; sales;
   supply chain management; support vector machines; demand forecasting;
   economic instability; economic uncertainty; food industries; forecasting
   models; global economics; machine learning approaches; machine learning;
   product sales; support vectors machine; long short-term memory

---

UT 1494
AR Anusha K, 2024, PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN APPL INFORMATICS ACCAI,
   DOI 10.1109/ACCAI61061.2024.10602355
TI IoT Based Food Spoilage Detection using Machine Learning Techniques
AU Anusha K; Uma K; Jayasri K; Kambham S; Dandamudi SD
TC 9
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN APPL INFORMATICS ACCAI
PY 2024
AB food rotting is an essential concern contributing to significant food waste
   , and novel early detection and prevention methods are needed . existing
   manual monitoring procedures are generally time consuming and prone to
   errors , resulting in spoiling detection delays . the study presents an iot
   based food spoilage detection system to solve these issues . using iot
   sensors and machine learning ( ml ) algorithms , the proposed system
   provides continuous monitoring and predictive analysis of essential
   variables such as temperature , humidity , gas levels , and food
   availability . the proposed system uses real time monitoring and alerting to
   enable proactive interventions to prevent spoilage , decrease waste , and
   promote sustainability throughout the food supply chain . the performance
   evaluation shows that the proposed system outperforms existing systems in
   terms of accuracy ( 0.92 ) , precision ( 0.90 ) , recall ( 0.89 ) , and
   f1-score ( 0.91 ) . overall , the iot based food spoilage detection system
   provides an integrated strategy for reducing food waste and increasing
   sustainability , representing a big step forward in food waste reduction
   initiatives
DE cloud-based platform; food spoilage detection system; iot-based; optimal
   storage conditions; sensors; sustainability
ID food storage; food supply; internet of things; machine learning; spoilage;
   supply chains; cloud-based platforms; detection methods; detection system;
   food spoilage; food spoilage detection system; food waste; iot-based;
   machine learning techniques; optimal storage condition; storage condition;
   sustainable development

---

UT 1495
AR Azman WNFSW, 2023, AIP CONF PROC, V2579, DOI 10.1063/5.0113843
TI Multi-classification of Freshness from Leftover-cooked Food in Malaysian
   Foods using Machine Learning.
AU Azman WNFSW; Azir KNFK/1; Amir A; Ujir H
TC 0
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2023
AB the objective of this study is to implement machine learning ( ml ) to
   identify and classify the level of contamination in leftover cooked foods
   based on its aroma . an evaluation on the smell profiles using as a model
   local malaysian lunch or evening foods that have always been stored as
   leftover cooked food is done in this study . to capture the data , a simple
   e nose application is built and affixed to the food containers , which will
   accommodate four types of sensors sensitive to different gasses and is
   programmed using the arduino platform . to determine the aroma
   categorization of leftover malaysian cuisine , samples are examined using
   rstudio . the results in this study demonstrated satisfactory performances
   by k nearest neighbors ( k nn ) , support vector machines ( svm ) , and
   random forest ( rf ) with accuracies ranging from 87.5 % to 100 % using the
   oversampling and undersampling techniques . unfortunately , linear
   discriminant analysis ( lda ) gave poor performances ( 19.64 % 58.93 % ) in
   classifying the contamination level of the samples . hence , the results
   obtained gave an indication that the electronic nose presented in this
   research was a promising for classification of contamination level for
   leftover cooked foods , allowing food to be better anticipated as to whether
   it is still edible or not . 2023 american institute of physics inc .

---

UT 1496
AR Ikram A, 2024, CYTA J FOOD, V22, DOI 10.1080/19476337.2024.2393287
TI Applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in managing food quality and
   ensuring global food security
AU Ikram A; Mehmood H; Arshad MT; Rasheed A; Noreen S; Gnedeka KT
TC 84
SO CYTA J FOOD
PY 2024
AB the food industry uses artificial intelligence ( ai ) to enhance food
   quality and security while proposing significant capital savings and
   resource optimization . additionally , understanding machine learning ( ml )
   techniques is essential for their effectiveness . therefore , the gap lies
   in examining how industrial automation plays a crucial role in successfully
   implementing this new technology . to address this gap , this review
   explores ai s potential to significantly enhance food safety by creating a
   more transparent supply chain management system . therefore , the primary
   focus is exploring potential ai applications , such as artificial neural
   networks ( ann ) and convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) , for detecting
   food and agricultural product quality . the primary goal of utilizing these
   ai applications is to reduce human intervention and effort . these
   methodologies have advantages and disadvantages regarding theoretical
   knowledge and model interpretation
DE artificial intelligence; food quality; food safety; food security
ID food industries; food quality; food security; food safety; global food
   security; industrial automation; industry use; machine learning techniques;
   resources optimization; supply chain management system; food ingredients

---

UT 1497
AR Lindo JM, 2024, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P152, DOI 10.1145/3651781.3651804
TI Optimizing Detection and Recognition of Uneaten Fish Food Pellet Using
   Computer Vision Technique
AU Lindo JM; Fajardo AC; Gumiran CR; Gumiran JM
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2024
AB fish feeding is a complex task that requires effective management to prevent
   underfeeding and overfeeding . while previous studies have focused on
   various techniques such as machine learning , artificial intelligence , and
   computer vision , the resulting feed delivery has been uncontrollable ,
   leading to compromised water turbidity and fish health . this study
   addresses these challenges by utilizing a computer vision method to
   accurately detect and count pellets , which can be applied to pellet
   distribution . the model incorporates three pre processing methods ,
   including gaussian blur , hsv , and masking , which have shown significant
   effects on the detection and counting process . gaussian blur reduced the
   detected pellet to 445 , a 2776 reduction employing hsv conversion and a
   3140-pellet detection incorporating the pellet color using mask in the
   process . consequently , the implementation of these techniques has resulted
   in a substantial reduction ultimately leading to a more precise outcome that
   can be employed to regulate the feed quantity . this performance in
   detecting and counting pellets makes the model suitable for automated pellet
   distribution in fish feeding management
DE color extraction; fish feeding; pellet counting; pellet detection; threshold
ID artificial intelligence; computer vision; feeding; pelletizing; color
   extraction; complex task; computer vision techniques; effective management;
   fish feeding; fish foods; gaussian blur; pellet counting; pellet detection;
   threshold; fish

---

UT 1498
AR Ji H, 2023, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V138, P738, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2023.07.012
TI Recent advances and application of machine learning in food flavor
   prediction and regulation
AU Ji H; Pu D; Yan W; Zhang Q/4; Zuo M; Zhang Y/12
TC 199
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB background : food flavor is a key factor affecting sensory quality .
   predicting and regulating flavor can result in exceptional flavor
   characteristics and improve consumer preferences and food acceptability .
   evaluating and regulating flavor through traditional experimental methods
   are time consuming , labor intensive , and can not handle large amounts of
   data . computational methods , such as machine learning ( ml ) techniques ,
   can accurately and efficiently predict and regulate complex flavors and
   attract continuous attention . scope and approach : this review presents the
   principles and advantages of commonly used ml methods , including support
   vector machine , decision tree , random forest , k nearest neighbors ,
   extreme learning machine , artificial neural networks , and deep learning ,
   as well as their recent applications and prospects in the prediction and
   regulation of food flavors . notably , the prediction of food flavor based
   on molecular structures , physical and chemical properties , and data
   obtained from electronic nose , electronic tongue , and gas chromatography
   mass spectrometry were summarized . the regulation of food flavor by ml
   through metabolites and genes has also been reviewed . key findings and
   conclusions : simultaneous combination of various ml methods could improve
   the prediction accuracy of flavor profiles , perception intensity , and
   sensory quality classification compared to a single model . additionally ,
   the data fusion of different techniques showed better flavor prediction
   performance than single data input . this review indicates that ml
   techniques are promising for predicting flavor formation mechanisms , dose
   effects of structure flavor quality , and directing the bio / chemical
   synthesis of desirable flavor compounds to meet the consumer demand for
   healthy and delicious food
DE flavor perception; food flavor; machine learning; prediction; regulation
ID data fusion; decision trees; deep learning; discriminant analysis;
   electronic nose; electronic tongues; gas chromatography; learning systems;
   mass spectrometry; metabolites; nearest neighbor search; neural networks;
   sensory analysis; support vector machines; consumers preferences;
   experimental methods; flavor perceptions; food flavors; key factors; machine
   learning methods; machine learning techniques; machine learning; regulation;
   sensory qualities; forecasting

---

UT 1499
AR Ataguba G, 2024, DATA BR, V53, DOI 10.1016/j.dib.2024.110092
TI African foods for deep learning-based food recognition systems dataset
AU Ataguba G; Ezekiel R; Daniel J; Ogbuju E; Orji R
TC 8
SO DATA BR
PY 2024
AB african foods have socio cultural significance that extends through
   migration , tourism , and marriage . africans travel and integrate within
   the continent through intermarriages . there are over a thousand cultural
   aspects that differ such as language , food , dressing , beliefs and customs
   . food is one of the cultural aspects that africans embrace quickly as they
   migrate and integrate socio culturally . we considered the limited
   representation of african food research in the hci community and propose to
   contribute the rich significant food datasets from two african countries :
   cameroon and ghana . list of cameroonian foods collected are : ekwang , eru
   and ndole . in addition , the list of ghanaian foods we collected are :
   jollof rice , palm nut soup and waakye . given the cultural diversity and
   our study s goal for cultural inclusion , we interacted with at least two
   locals from the selected countries , and they confirmed that these foods
   were universally recognized within their respective countries . the datasets
   were collected from youtube , facebook , the field ( restaurants ) ,
   creative common attribution google images , and other creative commons
   attribution sources . a total of 204 images of ekwang , 206 images of eru
   and 205 images of ndole were collected . in addition , we collected a total
   of 347 images of jollof rice , 392 images of palm nut soup and 400 images of
   waakye . we present a meta data description of the data , quality
   assessments of our dataset and opportunities for the hci community to
   explore in the future
DE african foods; datasets; food recognition systems; human computer
   interaction; machine learning; socio-cultural
ID deep learning; learning systems; african food; cameroon; creative commons;
   cultural aspects; dataset; food recognition system; food research; machine
   learning; recognition systems; socio-cultural; human computer interaction

---

UT 1500
AR Zhao Z/1, 2024, SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND, V45, P11, DOI
   10.13386/j.issn1002-0306.2023090288
TI Regulation and Analysis of Food Safety Based on Machine Learning;
   [基于机器学习对食品安全的调控与分析]
AU Zhao Z/1; Liu M/1; Bai L/1; Ren R; Shang W; Sun Y/4; Weng Y
TC 0
SO SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND
PY 2024
AB food is the top priority for the people , and safety is the top priority for
   food . the quality and safety of food are related to the national economy
   and people s livelihood . with the development of chinese economy and the
   improvement of people s quality of life , the scale of the food industry has
   also grown year by year , and the society and consumers have more stringent
   requirements on the quality of food production and its own safety . however
   , food quality and safety incidents occur frequently , making food quality
   and safety management an important task for improving people s livelihoods .
   machine learning has been widely applied in the field of food quality and
   safety , with strong self learning ability , good nonlinear fitting ability
   , and fast modeling . among them , neural network models and supervised
   learning methods can accurately and quickly detect and control the quality
   of food in the production process . this article focuses on the research
   progress of machine learning in the field of food quality and safety , and
   discusses it in three directions : food quality inspection , food process
   traceability , and food safety warning . in order to clarify the focus ,
   advantages and disadvantages , and future development direction of machine
   learning algorithms in food regulation , and provide theoretical support and
   technical guidance for the intelligent development of ensuring food quality
   and safety
DE food regulation; food safety; machine learning; neural networks; supervised
   learning
ID accident prevention; learning algorithms; learning systems; supervised
   learning; chinese economy; food quality and safeties; food regulation; food
   safety; machine learning; national economy; neural networks; on-machines;
   quality and safeties; safety of food; food safety

---

UT 1501
AR Foster J, 2023, SCI REP, V13, DOI 10.1038/s41598-023-44859-0
TI Aiding food security and sustainability efforts through graph neural
   network-based consumer food ingredient detection and substitution
AU Foster J; Brintrup A
TC 8
SO SCI REP
PY 2023
AB understanding precisely what is in food products is not always
   straightforward due to food fraud , differing labeling regulations , naming
   inconsistencies and the hierarchical nature of ingredients . despite this ,
   the need to detect and substitute ingredients in consumer food products is
   far reaching . the cultivation and production of many ingredients is
   unsustainable , and can lead to widespread deforestation and biodiversity
   loss . understanding the presence and replaceability of these ingredients is
   an important step in reducing their use . furthermore , certain ingredients
   are critical to consumer food products , and identifying these ingredients
   and evaluating supply chain resilience in the event of losing access to them
   is vital for food security analysis . to address these issues , we first
   present a novel machine learning approach for detecting the presence of
   unlabeled ingredients . we then characterize the unsolved problem of
   proposing viable food substitutions as a directed link prediction task and
   solve it with a graph neural network ( gnn )
ID food analysis; food ingredients; food security; food ingredient; food
   analysis; food security

---

UT 1502
AR Patil SN, 2024, SSRG INT J ELECTRON COMMUN ENG, V11, P179, DOI
   10.14445/23488549/IJECE-V11I5P118
TI Innovative IoT-Enabled Food Nutrient Profiling with Deep Learning Techniques
AU Patil SN; Kagalkar RM
TC 1
SO SSRG INT J ELECTRON COMMUN ENG
PY 2024
AB as living costs in large cities continue to rise , and the health and safety
   concerns associated with eating fast food become more apparent , an
   increasing number of office workers are opting to bring their lunches from
   home . traditionally , these lunches are reheated using microwaves , thermal
   lunch boxes , or electric heating containers . this device introduces a
   novel solution by enabling users to control the temperature of their
   lunchbox remotely via a smartphone application . this innovative device
   automates several conventional functions , such as setting timers for food
   heating , thus providing a more convenient alternative to traditional
   microwaves . not only does it eliminate the need for an external power
   source during heating , but it also promotes healthier eating habits by
   tracking the nutritional content of the meals . the device is ideal for
   users seeking the convenience of enjoying hot meals on the go , making it a
   significant advancement in personal meal management . 2024 seventh sense
   research group .
DE dietary management technology; food detection; machine learning in food
   analysis; nutritional analysis; remote temperature control; smart tiffin box

---

UT 1503
AR Chotwanvirat P, 2024, CURR DEV NUTR, V8, DOI 10.1016/j.cdnut.2024.102154
TI Automated Artificial Intelligence–Based Thai Food Dietary Assessment System:
   Development and Validation
AU Chotwanvirat P; Prachansuwan A; Sridonpai P; Kriengsinyos W
TC 8
SO CURR DEV NUTR
PY 2024
AB background : dietary assessment is a fundamental component of nutrition
   research and plays a pivotal role in managing chronic diseases . traditional
   dietary assessment methods , particularly in the context of thai cuisine ,
   often require extensive training and may lead to estimation errors .
   objectives : to address these challenges , institute of nutrition , mahidol
   university ( inmu ) ifood , an innovative artificial intelligencebased thai
   food dietary assessment system , allows for estimating the nutritive values
   of dishes from food images . methods : inmu ifood leverages state of the art
   technology and integrates a validated automated thai food analysis system .
   users can use 3 distinct input methods : food image recognition , manual
   input , and a convenient barcode scanner . this versatility simplifies the
   tracking of dietary intake while maximizing data quality at the individual
   level . the core improvement in inmu ifood can be attributed to 2 key
   factors , namely , the replacement of yolov4-tiny with yolov7 and the
   expansion of noncarbohydrate source foods in the training image data set .
   results : this combination significantly enhances the system s ability to
   identify food items , especially in scenarios with closely packed food
   images , thus improving accuracy . validation results showcase the superior
   performance of the inmu ifood integrated v7-based system over its
   predecessor , v4-based , with notable improvements in protein and fat
   estimation . furthermore , inmu ifood addresses limitations by offering
   users the option to import additional food products via a barcode scanner ,
   thus providing access to a vast database of nutritional information through
   open food facts . this integration ensures users can track their dietary
   intake effectively , with expanded access to over 3000 food items added to
   or updated in the open food facts database covering a wide variety of
   dietary choices . conclusions : inmu ifood is a promising tool for
   researchers , health care professionals , and individuals seeking to monitor
   their dietary intake within the context of thai cuisine and for ultimately
   promoting better health outcomes and facilitating nutrition related research
DE artificial intelligence; dietary assessment; image-assisted dietary
   assessment; macronutrients; thai food; validation
ID carbohydrate; fat; food ingredient; protein; article; artificial
   intelligence; carbohydrate analysis; data quality; deep learning; dietary
   intake; feedforward neural network; food analysis; food composition; human;
   image analysis; macronutrient; nutritional assessment; nutritional value;
   physical appearance; portion size; thailand

---

UT 1504
AR Govindharaj I, 2024, INT CONF INNOV CHALLENGES EMERG TECHNOL ICICET, DOI
   10.1109/ICICET59348.2024.10616269
TI Enhancing Mango Quality Evaluation: Utilizing an MLP Model for Five-Class
   Severity Grading
AU Govindharaj I; Thapliyal N; Manwal M; Kukreja V; Sharma R
TC 5
SO INT CONF INNOV CHALLENGES EMERG TECHNOL ICICET
PY 2024
AB the examination of mango quality is by all means used in the agribusiness
   chain that links the growers to the consumers , and both benefit from that .
   the traditional quality assessment looking much more manual and subjective
   rather than consistent and efficient is a real challenge among the others .
   the study proposes a breakthrough automatic technique for grading mangoes
   based on a multi layer perceptron ( mlp ) synthesis , which effortlessly
   categorizes mangoes within five proxies of quality , with high reliability
   and accuracy . the dataset of mangoes we are harnessing , which is all with
   quality grades annotated , has through machine learning we trained an mlp
   model , and its architecture was optimized so that it can effectively
   identify and classify various shades in the quality of mangoes . the model
   exhibited a very high accuracy rate of $ 95.7 \ % $ across grades on quality
   consistent with other current models and methods . the models submitted are
   proof of grading fruit for quality as mlp models have the potential of
   automation and precision , offering substantial benefits such as consistency
   , objectivity , and scalability . more than just helping the progress of
   agricultural technology , this research makes it possible for future quality
   control evaluation based on machine learning for every horticultural related
   product . findings confirm the usefulness of the model for cultivators ,
   exporters , and retailers in increasing the management of quality control
   mechanisms , which consequently helps get rid of waste and improve the
   client s satisfaction
DE agricultural technology; automated quality assessment; fruit quality
   grading; image-based classification; machine learning in agriculture; mango
   quality evaluation; multilayer perceptron; neural networks in agri-food
ID agricultural technology; classification ( of information ); grading; image
   classification; image enhancement; machine learning; multilayer neural
   networks; network layers; quality control; waste management; agricultural
   technologies; automated quality assessment; fruit quality; fruit quality
   grading; image-based classification; machine learning in agriculture;
   machine learning; mango quality evaluation; multilayers perceptrons; neural
   network in agri-food; neural networks; quality assessment; quality
   evaluation; quality grading; fruits

---

UT 1505
AR Nasir N, 2024, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS - PROC, P185, DOI
   10.1109/AiDAS63860.2024.10730628
TI A Study of Sentiment Analysis in Customer Food Preferences Through Machine
   Learning
AU Nasir N; Zahari SM; Januri SS; Aidil NIBM; Pauzi NINM; Zubir AZ
TC 0
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS - PROC
PY 2024
AB understanding customer food preferences is vital for restaurants to offer
   valuable services . recognizing these preferences and the underlying
   sentiments helps in understanding how customers make dining decisions ,
   where reviews on food type , pricing , portion size , and taste play a
   crucial role . this study focuses on local , western , and asian cuisines ,
   emphasizing the importance for restaurant owners to stay informed about
   consumer demands and how sentiments influence food choices . it aims to
   identify sentiments and keywords associated with preferred food types from
   customer tweets and to determine whether positive sentiments have a greater
   impact than negative ones in the decision making process . the research uses
   a machine learning approach , incorporating bag of grams models , sentiment
   analysis , and hypothesis testing for proportions , with data collected from
   twitter between april and may 2023 . results show that the naive bayes model
   had the highest accuracy ( 72.50 % ) compared to k nn ( 67.8 % ) and
   decision tree ( 61.85 % ) . sentiment analysis also indicates that positive
   sentiments have a stronger influence on customer decisions than negative
   ones
DE food preference; sentiment analysis; text analysis
ID consumer demands; decision making process; food preference; gram models;
   hypothesis testing; machine learning approaches; machine learning; research
   use; sentiment analysis; text analysis; sales

---

UT 1506
AR Hasti HV, 2024, IEEE INT CONF DATA SCI NETW SECUR ICDSNS, DOI
   10.1109/ICDSNS62112.2024.10691060
TI Image Processing and Machine Learning Methods for Assessing Food Quality
AU Hasti HV; Jatan SA; Nahar T; Dubey V; Parmar C
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF DATA SCI NETW SECUR ICDSNS
PY 2024
AB this comprehensive review paper explores innovative strategies for quality
   assessment in agriculture and food industries , which offer greater
   efficiency and cost efficiency compared to traditional approaches . it
   highlights the use of sophisticated convolutional neural networks ( cnns )
   tailored specifically for wheat contamination detection with unsurpassed
   accuracy . notably , an innovative noninvasive system employing machine
   learning achieved 92.57 % accuracy when estimating apple freshness
   estimation . hyperspectral imaging technology accurately classifies apple
   bruises with 97.33 % accuracy , outclassing yolov4-tiny by 11 % . an
   automated nondestructive scanning method evaluates meat quality while taking
   into account both its applications and challenges . utilizing image
   processing and machine learning technologies , a cost effective system has
   been created that accurately classifies and prices rice products ,
   contributing greatly to product quality assessment methodologies as well as
   increasing competitiveness within agricultural and food technology
   industries
DE agricultural industry; food quality; machine learning; non-invasive methods;
   quality assessment
ID agricultural industries; agriculture industries; food quality; images
   processing; innovative strategies; machine learning methods; machine
   learning; non-invasive methods; quality assessment; review papers

---

UT 1507
AR Parimala Gandhi A, 2023, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC, P324,
   DOI 10.1109/ICCMC56507.2023.10083648
TI Calorie Estimation of Food and Beverages using Deep Learning
AU Parimala Gandhi A; Sapna S; Yaswanth KM; Praveen Kumar M
TC 4
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC
PY 2023
AB obesity , a serious chronic disease , is on the rise as a result of how
   easily food can be brought to our door steps . people s need for food grew ,
   and at the same time , their anxiety about their nutrition also grew . this
   study offers an image based calorie estimation system that asks the user to
   upload an image of a food item in order to calculate the estimated number of
   calories in the image . it is a multitasking system that dis plays weekly
   information on a user s calorie consumption and the number of calories that
   must be ingested to prevent obesity related illnesses like cancer , heart
   attack , etc . to recognize complex pictures , a collection of food images
   with 20 classes and 500 images are built in each class . this study has
   developed a six layer convolutional neural network ( cnn ) architecture for
   the purpose of extracting the traits and classifying the images . the
   proposed food identification trials had an accuracy of 78.7 % during testing
   and 93.29 % throughout training . by using software designed to accurately
   estimate food calories from still images , users and healthcare experts may
   be able to more rapidly detect dietary practices and food choices connected
   to health and health concerns . calorie calculation has been done by using
   photographs , however , it is difficult , and there is presently no publicly
   available program that can conduct both food estimation using images and
   provide health information about the individual
DE convolutional neural network ( cnn ) algorithm; datasets; image
   segmentation; web application
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; diseases;
   multilayer neural networks; network layers; nutrition; calorie estimations;
   chronic disease; convolutional neural network; convolutional neural network
   algorithm; dataset; food cans; images segmentations; neural networks
   algorithms; web application; web applications; image segmentation

---

UT 1508
AR Xiong R, 2024, ENV DEV SUSTAIN, V26, P26971, DOI 10.1007/s10668-024-05212-1
TI Machine learning-enhanced evaluation of food security across 169 economies
AU Xiong R; Peng H; Chen X; Shuai C
TC 13
SO ENV DEV SUSTAIN
PY 2024
AB the assessment of global food security is imperative for sustainable
   development worldwide . however , limited data availability has impeded a
   comprehensive evaluation on a global scale . this study addresses this
   challenge by conducting a thorough food security analysis spanning 169
   countries from 2008 to 2020 . to overcome data limitations , an imputed
   database is generated using four machine learning models to estimate missing
   data . the results uncover significant disparities in food security across
   regions . europe , oceania , and north america exhibit higher levels , while
   east asia and south america fall in the middle , and africa and south asia
   experience lower levels . notably , six african countries have made
   considerable progress in food security , potentially attributed to support
   from nations such as france , the united states , china , and japan . policy
   recommendations include humanitarian relief , expanding social safety nets ,
   developing transportation networks , supplying fertilizers in vulnerable
   areas , and stabilizing food prices through national fiscal policies are
   also proposed for economies with low food security performance . the study
   provides an imputed database for 44 indicators from 2008 to 2020 , offering
   insights into food security and potential solutions for governments and
   international organizations
DE food security; global assessment; machine learning; sustainable development
   goals
ID africa; china; france; japan; united states; database; economic analysis;
   environmental assessment; fertilizer; fiscal policy; food security;
   humanitarian aid; machine learning; social security; sustainable development
   goal

---

UT 1509
AR Shafiezad O, 2024, HTTPS//WWWMDPICOM/JOURNAL/TOURISMHOSP, V5, P1396, DOI
   10.3390/tourhosp5040078
TI Sentiment Analysis of Berlin Tourists’ Food Quality Perception Through
   Artificial Intelligence
AU Shafiezad O; Mostofi H
TC 5
SO HTTPS//WWWMDPICOM/JOURNAL/TOURISMHOSP
PY 2024
AB this study examines how tourists perceive food quality in berlin using ai
   driven sentiment analysis tools . the goal is to understand the factors
   shaping tourists perceptions and provide insights to improve the hospitality
   industry and customer satisfaction . by analyzing reviews from online
   platforms , this research identifies key themes and trends in tourists
   feedback . the use of ai , specifically for sentiment analysis , supports
   efficient and detailed evaluation of customer opinions . this study employed
   lexicon based sentiment analysis to evaluate tourists feedback on online
   platforms and compared the sentiment scores of textual feedback with their
   direct rating scores . the results show that integrating sentiment scores
   derived from ai tools with tourists rating scores provides deeper insights
   into service quality within the tourism sector
DE artificial intelligence; culinary perception; sentiment analysis; tourism
   research; visitor feedback analysis

---

UT 1510
AR Patil P, 2023, INT J RECENT INNOV TREND COMPUT COMMUN, V11, P303, DOI
   10.17762/ijritcc.v11i6s.6935
TI Foodopedia: A Convolutional Neural Network Based Food Calorie Estimation
AU Patil P; Panja BB; Mundada GD; Nandurkar MA
TC 3
SO INT J RECENT INNOV TREND COMPUT COMMUN
PY 2023
AB the number of calories consumed determines how healthy a body is in the
   modern world . therefore , it is important to watch your calorie intake to
   be healthy . people must keep track of their caloric intake in order to
   become in shape or maintain a healthy weight . the suggested model uses a
   deep learning algorithm to offer a novel method of calorie measurement . in
   the medical area , the estimation of dietary calories is crucial . this
   measurement is derived from the representation of food in various objects ,
   such as fruits and vegetables . the neural network is used to take this
   measurement . this technique uses a convolutional neural network to
   determine the calories in food . an image of food is used as the input for
   this calculated model . the suggested cnn model uses food object
   identification to calculate the calorie content of the food . volume error
   estimation serves as the primary parameter for the outcome , while calorie
   error estimation serves as the secondary parameter . 2023 authors

---

UT 1511
AR Tang J, 2023, J MATER CYCLES WASTE MANAG, V25, P2442, DOI
   10.1007/s10163-023-01706-8
TI Using machine learning method to predict food waste in catering industry
   under high resolution: a case in Dongguan
AU Tang J; Tang Y; Liu Y/2; Su H; Zhang Y/8; Sun Z; Ma X
TC 8
SO J MATER CYCLES WASTE MANAG
PY 2023
AB waste classification is comprehensively carried out in china as an important
   national level policy , and the large amount and the wide range of food
   waste generation ( fwg ) because problems in the collection , transportation
   , and treatment . this study has conducted the prediction of fwg from the
   catering industry under high resolution , and provided suggestions and
   insights for food waste management and treatment . taking dongguan as an
   example , a back propagation network ( bpn ) model is used to predict fwg
   under different operation data , and based on the acquired theoretical fwg
   numerical distribution , the intervals used to divide fwg values are
   determined . then a random forest ( rf ) model is applied to predict the fwg
   intervals of the restaurants in the point of interest ( poi ) data . fwg of
   96,303 restaurants is predicted , and the predicted fwg from the catering
   industry is about 3,106 t per day . variation of fwg in different categories
   of restaurants , the material flow of fwg at the restaurant level , patterns
   of fwg at the restaurant level , and spatial patterns of fwg at the city
   level are also investigated . suggestions for improvement of food waste
   collection standard and source reduction of fwg , and insights into food
   waste collection and distributed treatment system are raised . graphical
   abstract : [ figure not available : see fulltext . ] 2023 , the author ( s )
   , under exclusive license to springer nature japan okay , part of springer
   nature .
DE big data; food waste; geographic information system; high resolution urban
   grid; spatial analysis
ID backpropagation; forecasting; forestry; geographic information systems;
   waste treatment; catering industries; dongguan; food waste; food waste
   collection; high resolution; high resolution urban grid; machine learning
   methods; spatial analysis; waste classification; waste generation; big data

---

UT 1512
AR Li H/1, 2024, J ENV MANAG, V369, DOI 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.122279
TI Machine learning-assisted optimization of food-grade spirulina cultivation
   in seawater-based media: From laboratory to large-scale production
AU Li H/1; Guo L/1; Chen L/3; Zhang F/2; Wang W; Lam TK-Y; Xia Y; Cai Z
TC 11
SO J ENV MANAG
PY 2024
AB the shortage of food and freshwater sources threatens human health and
   environmental sustainability . spirulina grown in seawater based media as a
   healthy food is promising and environmentally friendly . this study used
   three machine learning techniques to identify important cultivation
   parameters and their hidden interrelationships and optimize the biomass
   yield of spirulina grown in seawater based media . through optimization of
   hyperparameters and features , extreme gradient boosting , along with the
   recursive feature elimination ( rfe ) model demonstrated optimal performance
   and identified 28 important features . among them , illumination intensity
   and initial ph value were critical determinants of biomass , which impacted
   other features . specifically , high initial ph values ( > 9.0 ) mainly
   increased biomass but also increased nutrient sedimentation and ammonia (
   nh3 ) losses . both batch and continuous additions could decrease nutrient
   losses by increasing their availability in the seawater based media . when
   illumination intensity exceeded 200 mol photons / m2/s , it amplified the
   growth of spirulina by mitigating the light attenuation caused by a high
   initial inoculum level and counteracted the negative effect of low
   temperature ( < 25 c ) . in large scale cultivation , production efficiency
   would be reduced if illumination was not maintained at a high level . high
   salinity and sodium bicarbonate ( nahco3 ) addition promoted carbohydrate
   accumulation , but suitable dilution could keep the required protein content
   in spirulina with relatively low media and production costs . these findings
   reveal the interactive influence of cultivation parameters on biomass yield
   and help us determine the optimal cultivation conditions for large scale
   cultivation of spirulina based seawater system based on a developed
   graphical user interface website
DE biomass yield; cultivation parameters; graphical user interface; large-scale
   cultivation; machine learning
ID biomass; machine learning; seawater; spirulina; ammonia; bicarbonate;
   carbohydrate; carbon; edetic acid; fresh water; iron; nitrogen; phosphorus;
   protein; sea water; biomass yield; cultivation parameter; food grade;
   illumination intensity; initial ph value; large-scale cultivations; large-
   scale productions; machine learning; optimizations; spirulina; biomass;
   cultivation; freshwater environment; growth rate; laboratory method; light
   attenuation; machine learning; seawater; temperature effect; article;
   biomass; carbon source; environmental parameters; feature selection; large-
   scale production; light; low temperature; machine learning; markup language;
   nonhuman; nutrient; ph; photon; photosynthesis; plant growth; precipitation;
   prediction; production efficiency; protein content; recursive feature
   elimination; root mean squared error; salinity; seashore; sedimentation;
   spirulina; biomass; chemistry; growth development and aging; metabolism

---

UT 1513
AR Sanin Zulphi M, 2024, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT
   CSITSS, DOI 10.1109/CSITSS64042.2024.10816851
TI Cross-Modal Ingredient Recognition and Recipe Suggestion using Computer
   Vision and Predictive Modeling
AU Sanin Zulphi M; Muzzammil Razin PA; Rahul Krishna KR; Ramasamy G
TC 1
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT SYST TECHNOL SUSTAIN SOLUT CSITSS
PY 2024
AB this paper is focused on the development of a novel system known as
   ingredeye . it involves various approaches that can be grouped into
   categories , such as computer vision , including yolov8 , a knn prediction
   model , and a flutter framework that hosts all of them in a mobile
   application environment . previous studies have analyzed the application of
   computer vision and opencv recognition in cooking and proved that such
   approaches could enhance the level of convenience in the culinary field .
   this paper addresses issues like changes in lighting , occlusions , and
   other factors that have to be solved by the algorithms envisaged for real
   applications . the objective of this paper solely relies on integrating the
   opencv object detection method with comprehensive machine learning
   techniques specialized for the culinary field . presenting the end user with
   recipe recommendations based on the visual input they have given
DE computer vision; firebase; flutter; ingredient recognition; knn algorithm;
   machine learning; roboflow; yolov8
ID adversarial machine learning; computer vision; machine vision; object
   recognition; cross-modal; firebase; flutter; ingredient recognition; knn
   algorithm; machine learning; predictive models; roboflow; vision model;
   yolov8; object detection

---

UT 1514
AR Adjuik TA, 2024, J FOOD SCI, V89, P8006, DOI 10.1111/1750-3841.17421
TI Enhancing dietary analysis: Using machine learning for food caloric and
   health risk assessment
AU Adjuik TA; Boi-Dsane NAA; Kehinde BA
TC 10
SO J FOOD SCI
PY 2024
AB abstract : in the wake of growing concerns regarding diet related health
   issues , this study investigates the application of machine learning methods
   to estimate the energy content and classify the health risks of foods based
   on the usda national nutrient database . the caloric content of foods was
   estimated using the nutritional composition ( i . e . , carbohydrates ,
   protein , total lipid , and total sugar content ) and classified based on
   their weighted health risks , considering their carbohydrate , lipid , and
   glycemic index levels . the algorithms used for modeling include multiple
   linear regression ( mlr ) , k nearest neighbors , support vector machine ,
   random forest regression ( rfr ) , gradient boosted regression , decision
   trees ( dt ) , and deep neural networks . the mlr model demonstrated high
   accuracy on the training dataset ( r2 = 0.99 , mean absolute error [ mae ] =
   7.71 kcal , and root mean squared error [ rmse ] = 17.89 kcal ) and testing
   dataset ( r2 = 0.99 , mae = 7.75 kcal , and rmse = 18 kcal ) in energy
   estimation , indicating its effectiveness in dietary assessment . the rfr
   and dt models were useful in categorizing foods into low health risk foods ,
   but their performance was reduced in medium and high health risk groups .
   this research contributes to developing tools that could aid in personalized
   dietary planning and public health interventions to mitigate diet related
   health risks . practical application : this study applies machine learning
   to estimate how many calories are in food and to understand the health risks
   different foods might have . by investigating the fats , cholesterol , and
   sugars in food items listed in a public database , we can better plan diets
   or develop apps that help people make healthier eating choices . this work
   aims to improve public access to nutritional information , supporting
   efforts to combat diet related diseases through educational materials and
   applications that guide dietary choices in various settings . 2024 the
   author ( s ) . journal of food science published by wiley periodicals llc on
   behalf of institute of food technologists .
DE energy estimation; food nutrients; nutrients database; nutrition
ID algorithms; diet; energy intake; food analysis; glycemic index; humans;
   machine learning; nutritive value; risk assessment; algorithm; caloric
   intake; diet; food analysis; glycemic index; human; machine learning;
   nutritional value; procedures; risk assessment

---

UT 1515
AR Miyazawa T, 2022, NUTR REV, V80, P2288, DOI 10.1093/nutrit/nuac033
TI Artificial intelligence in food science and nutrition: a narrative review
AU Miyazawa T; Hiratsuka Y; Toda M; Hatakeyama N; Ozawa H; Abe C; Cheng T-Y;
   Matsushima Y; Miyawaki Y; Ashida K; Iimura J; Tsuda T; Bushita H; Tomonobu
   K; Ohta S; Chung H; Omae Y; Yamamoto T; Morinaga M; Ochi H; Nakada H; Otsuka
   K; Miyazawa T/1
TC 76
SO NUTR REV
PY 2022
AB in the late 2010s , artificial intelligence ( ai ) technologies became
   complementary to the research areas of food science and nutrition . this
   review aims to summarize these technological advances by systematically
   describing the following : the use of ai in other fields ( eg , engineering
   , pharmacy , and medicine ) . the history of ai in relation to food science
   and nutrition . the ai technologies currently used in the agricultural and
   food industries . and some of the important applications of ai in areas such
   as immunity boosting foods , dietary assessment , gut microbiome profile
   analysis , and toxicity prediction of food ingredients . these applications
   are likely to be in great demand in the near future . this review can
   provide a starting point for brainstorming and for generating new ai
   applications in food science and nutrition that have yet to be imagined .
   2022 the author ( s ) . published by oxford university press on behalf of
   the international life sciences institute
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; dietary assessment; food components;
   gut microbiome; health; immunological functions; machine learning; timeline;
   toxicity prediction
ID artificial intelligence; delivery of health care; food technology; humans;
   agriculture; artificial intelligence; biomedical engineering; deep learning;
   food industry; food poisoning; history of medicine; human; machine learning;
   nonhuman; nutrition; nutritional assessment; nutritional science; pharmacy (
   discipline ); review; food handling; health care delivery

---

UT 1516
AR Bhadra L, 2024, IND MICROBIOL BIOTECHNOL INSIGHT CURR TRENDS, P175, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-1912-9_9
TI Processed Food Microbiology and Safety: Risks, Trends and Future
   Perspectives
AU Bhadra L; Dhiman P; Srivastava A/1; Patel A; Ratrey P; Kumar A/2; Datta B
TC 8
SO IND MICROBIOL BIOTECHNOL INSIGHT CURR TRENDS
PY 2024
AB improvements in living standards worldwide have enabled greater appreciation
   of food products across distant and diverse cultures . food processing
   renders nutrients and flavors with greater endurance thereby facilitating
   usage over longer periods of time . processed foods experience a distinctive
   threat from microorganisms that can thrive despite and even due to the
   processing methods used . addressing the microbial safety of processed foods
   requires specialized insights into relevant modes of pathogenesis and
   detection methods . this chapter presents a holistic picture of the risks
   associated with microbial growth in processed food matrices . the first part
   discusses microbial pathogenesis in response to the physicochemical and
   biochemical changes associated with processed foods . the second part covers
   active measures to ensure processed food safety including frontier packaging
   materials and modern strategies involving informatics and machine learning .
   the chapter projects a conceptual framework for systematic study of
   processed food microbiology and the cutting edge approaches for addressing
   processed food safety
DE antimicrobial packaging; foodborne pathogens; industrial food processing;
   machine learning in food microbiology; microbial load assessment; processed
   food

---

UT 1517
AR Shirzad K, 2024, BIOSYST ENG, V247, P26, DOI
   10.1016/j.biosystemseng.2024.08.012
TI Enhancing sustainable food packaging design: A machine learning approach to
   predict ventilated corrugated paperboard strength
AU Shirzad K; Joodaky A
TC 19
SO BIOSYST ENG
PY 2024
AB in the food packaging industry , ventilated corrugated paperboard boxes are
   crucial for sustainable transport of fresh products . while these boxes
   ventilation holes advance air circulation , they also impact the material s
   compression or buckling strength . variations in hole geometry and location
   affecting this strength are explored , considering the composite material ,
   multi layered structure . traditional mechanical analyzes , which often
   require simplifications , may not fully capture this complexity , leading to
   less accurate predictions of the paperboard s strength . to address these
   challenges , a machine learning ( ml ) approach was utilized , employing the
   light gradient boosting machine ( lgbm ) to develop a predictive model for
   the buckling strength of corrugated paperboard boxes with ventilation
   cutouts . this physics informed ml model , trained on a compression dataset
   resulting from experimental tests for plates with a single cutout in three
   shapes and finite element method ( fem ) simulations for plates with various
   patterns of circular cutouts , provides highly accurate estimates of the
   plates buckling strength . it achieved 91.7 % accuracy on experimental data
   and 94.68 % on fem simulation data , showcasing its reliability . a new tool
   for predicting the buckling strength of corrugated paperboard is provided by
   this research , along with insights that can inform the design of more
   sustainable packaging solutions . furthermore , the methodology and findings
   have broader applications , potentially benefiting sectors like aerospace
   and construction , where similar structural materials are used . 2024 iagre
DE corrugated paperboard; food packaging; physics-informed machine learning;
   plate buckling; sustainable package; ventilated package
ID boxes; buckling; compression; data; food; packaging machines; plates;
   ventilation; local buckling; packaging machines; buckling strength;
   corrugated paperboard boxes; element method; food packaging; machine
   learning approaches; machine learning; physic-informed machine learning;
   plate buckling; sustainable package; ventilated package; corrugated
   paperboard

---

UT 1518
AR Su L, 2024, SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND, V45, P19, DOI
   10.13386/j.issn1002-0306.2024020165
TI Progress in Research on Machine Learning for Studies on Food Flavor
   Analysis; [机器学习技术在食品风味分析中的研究进展]
AU Su L; Li J/5; Kong J; Zhang Q/4; Yan W; Zuo M
TC 3
SO SCI TECHNOL FOOD IND
PY 2024
AB the flavor profile is an important factor that affects consumer preference
   and purchase intention and plays a vital role in food production as well as
   in food science research . traditional methods for determining food flavor
   are based on sensory evaluation , instrumental analysis , or a combination
   of the two . with the rapid development of computer technology , machine
   learning technology with high predictive ability and accuracy has been
   widely used for food flavor analysis and prediction . this method overcomes
   the limitations of traditional methods in food flavor evaluation , which are
   time consuming and can not be used to process large quantities of data .
   this review discusses the latest progress in food flavor analysis technology
   and machine learning technology in food flavor research and presents
   commonly used food flavor analysis techniques and machine learning
   algorithms . based on an overview of common machine learning models , this
   review systematically summarizes the application of machine learning in the
   high throughput screening of food flavor substances , flavor perception ,
   and flavor quality control . the challenges and future research trends in
   the application of machine learning to food flavor analysis and prediction
   are summarized and discussed . the purpose of this review is to provide
   theoretical references for machine learning technology to predict flavor
   formation mechanisms , synthesize desirable flavor compounds , and control
   food quality
DE flavor prediction; food flavor analysis; high throughput screening; machine
   learning; quality control
ID adversarial machine learning; flavor compounds; quality control; consumer
   purchase; flavor prediction; flavor profiles; flavor analysis; food flavor
   analyze; food flavors; high throughput screening; machine learning
   technology; machine learning; on-machines; food ingredients

---

UT 1519
AR Venkateswaran N, 2024, OXID COMMUN, V47, P743
TI BIOCHEMICAL OXIDATION PROCESS OPTIMISATION USING MACHINE LEARNING FOR
   PHARMACEUTICAL AND FOOD INDUSTRIES
AU Venkateswaran N; Kiruba S; Deeparani M; Devarani PA; Devi SR; Veena S;
   Vijaya Kumar Reddy R; Philip JM; Rajaram A
TC 20
SO OXID COMMUN
PY 2024
AB the food production company and the pharmaceutical industries produce
   enormous organic compositions of wastewater which are so complex and hence
   require efficient cleaning techniques to reduce environmental effects .
   biochemical oxidation process which includes aerobic and anaerobic digestion
   is used to achieve these goals . but the methods of optimizing these
   processes to various cases of wastewater composition are still subject to
   improvement . this work examined the application of machine learning ( ml )
   for the probabilistic modeling of biochemical oxidation processes in an
   endeavor of achieving higher efficiency in treatment processes and lower
   costs . statistical algorithms such as random forest , support vector
   machine , and neural networks were applied to model the prediction of
   oxidation processes efficiency concerning parameters including ph ,
   temperature , organic load , and microbial activity . this method gives
   scope to making modifications instantly so that maximum degradation of the
   organic pollutant can be achieved . accordingly , one with the most
   effective treatment technique according to the study is the advanced
   oxidation processes ( aops ) when applied with the ml optimization . aops
   such as fenton reaction and photocatalysis have expressed higher efficiency
   in removal of very stable and complex compounds to enhance the general
   efficiency of every wastewater treatment system . machine learning helps in
   the better management of aops since it can forecast the best operational
   conditions thus less usage of chemicals and energy . this integration also
   enhances the biodegradability of pharmaceutical and food waste and also
   supports regulatory compliance . research findings show that through
   mloptimised biochemical oxidation , cod and toc were reduced by up to 90 %
   depicting the solution as sustainable and cost effective . this work gives
   guidelines on how to use ml in enhancing efficiency in the aspects of
   wastewater treatment for enhanced environmental conservation in the
   pharmaceutical and food industries . 2024 , scibulcom ltd .
DE advanced oxidation processes; biochemical oxidation optimization; food
   industry; machine learning; pharmaceutical industry; wastewater treatment

---

UT 1520
AR Onyeaka H, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su151310482
TI Using Artificial Intelligence to Tackle Food Waste and Enhance the Circular
   Economy: Maximising Resource Efficiency and Minimising Environmental Impact:
   A Review
AU Onyeaka H; Tamasiga P; Nwauzoma UM; Miri T; Juliet UC; Nwaiwu O; Akinsemolu
   AA
TC 203
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB food waste is a global issue with significant economic , social , and
   environmental impacts . addressing this problem requires a multifaceted
   approach . one promising avenue is using artificial intelligence ( ai )
   technologies . this article explores the potential for ai to tackle food
   waste and enhance the circular economy and discusses the current state of
   food waste and the circular economy , highlighting specific ways that ai can
   be used to monitor and optimize food production and supply chains ,
   redistribute excess food to those in need , and support circular economy
   initiatives . as a result , we can maximize resource efficiency and minimize
   environmental impact with these applications , ultimately creating a more
   sustainable and equitable food system
DE artificial intelligence; circular economy; food waste; resource efficiency;
   supply chain optimization; sustainability
ID artificial intelligence; environmental impact; food production; food waste;
   optimization; resource management; supply chain management; sustainability;
   waste management

---

UT 1521
AR Hefft D, 2023, SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF, P1, DOI
   10.1201/9781003207955
TI Sensing and Artificial Intelligence Solutions for Food Manufacturing
AU Hefft D; Adetunji CO
TC 4
SO SENS ARTIF INTELL SOLUTIONS FOOD MANUF
PY 2023
AB this book gives readers a practical introduction into machine learning and
   sensing techniques , their design and ultimately specific applications that
   could improve food production . it shows how these sensing and computing
   systems are suitable for process implementation in food factories . this
   book starts by giving the reader an overview of the historic structures of
   food manufacturing standards and how they defined today s manufacturing . it
   is followed by a topical introduction for professionals in the food
   industries in topics such as ai , machine learning , and neural networks .
   it also includes an explanation of the different sensor systems and their
   basic principles . it shows how these sensing and computing systems are
   suitable for process implementation in food factories and what types of
   sensing systems have already been proven to deliver benefit to the food
   manufacturing industries . the authors also discuss issues around food
   safety , labeling , and traceability and how sensing and ai can help to
   resolve issues . they also use case studies and specific examples that can
   show the benefit of such technologies compared to current approaches . this
   book is a practical introduction and handbook for students , food engineers
   , technologists and process engineers on the benefits and challenges around
   modern manufacturing systems following industry 4.0 approaches

---

UT 1522
AR Rana S, 2024, PROC - IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN NETW ICAC2N, P278, DOI
   10.1109/ICAC2N63387.2024.10895325
TI Detection of Food Quality Using Machine Learning Algorithms
AU Rana S; Singh R/2; Gusain S; Vij S; Saini B; Joshi A/2
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN NETW ICAC2N
PY 2024
AB efficient food spoilage detection systems are important to limit the
   economic damage as the world s food consumption rises not only that it
   minimize losses and guarantee the safety of food . in our research paper we
   have given the analysis of the use of various machine learning algorithms ,
   which includes k means with binary particle swarm optimization ( kbph ) ,
   you only look once ( yolo ) , region based convolutional neural networks (
   rcnn ) , faster rcnn , fisher face , and convolutional neural networks ( cnn
   ) , for the detection of food spoilage . this work makes a remarkable
   contribution to the field of food decaying detection by helping
   practitioners and academics choose the best machine learning algorithms for
   certain food industryapplications . key words : cnn , rcnn , kbph , yolo
DE neural networks; r-cnn; yolo
ID adversarial machine learning; convolutional neural networks; particle swarm
   optimization ( pso ); convolutional neural network; detection system;
   economic damages; food quality; food spoilage; machine learning algorithms;
   neural networks; region-based; region-based convolutional neural network;
   you only look once; food chemistry

---

UT 1523
AR Vourkas I, 2024, PARALLEL PROCESS LETT, V34, DOI 10.1142/S0129626424500075
TI Hardware Design Strategies Oriented to Edge Computing and AgriFood
   Electronics for Image Processing using Cellular Automata
AU Vourkas I
TC 0
SO PARALLEL PROCESS LETT
PY 2024
AB there has been a growing interest from academia and industry in developing
   circuits and systems for edge computing and quality control tasks in food
   production lines , where image processing is frequently required . this
   paper outlines the required considerations for designing a fruit
   classification system based on image processing using cellular automata ( ca
   ) models and integrating it into reconfigurable hardware ( hw ) such as
   field programmable gate arrays ( fpgas ) . parallel processing in ca
   requires numerous processing elements to be implemented and mapping ca
   models to hw generally comes with limitations . homogeneous ca arrays are
   easier to design and implement in hw but can be resource demanding . to fill
   this gap , this study explores different alternatives for the hw
   implementation of ca models , particularly trading computational parallelism
   for a more optimized use of the available hw resources . we conducted
   experimental tests of the designed hw system using the digilent nexys
   development board , and the operation was validated against software based
   benchmarks for image processing , particularly concerning edge detection .
   the presented study provides a broader range of design solutions for the hw
   implementation of two dimensional ca models and a better understanding of
   their advantages and disadvantages . the results show that solutions
   focusing on instruction parallelism add some complexity to the conception
   and require more design effort , compared to homogeneous ca models composed
   of identical cells . however , the instruction parallel design solutions can
   significantly improve the hw resource utilization , especially when
   implementing computationally intensive ca rules in fpgas
DE agri-food electronics; cellular automata; classification; edge computing;
   edge detection; fpga; image processing
ID benchmarking; cellular arrays; hardware-software co-design; integrated
   circuit design; structural dynamics; agri-food; agri-food electronic;
   cellular automata models; cellular automatons; edge computing; field
   programmable gate array; field programmables; hardware implementations;
   images processing; programmable gate array; reconfigurable hardware

---

UT 1524
AR Sriman B, 2023, PROC INT CONF ARTIF INTELL KNOWL DISCOV CONCURR ENG ICECONF,
   DOI 10.1109/ICECONF57129.2023.10083755
TI Tracking of Food Waste in Food Supply Chain Using Machine Learning
AU Sriman B; Santhosh R; Guru RS; Raju VSP; Prasad HR; Sailendiran R
TC 7
SO PROC INT CONF ARTIF INTELL KNOWL DISCOV CONCURR ENG ICECONF
PY 2023
AB in india , annually , 67 million tons of food are wasted , costing the
   country roughly 92000 crores . the motivation behind recycling food waste is
   the desire to divert waste from landfills . this study aims to manage food
   wastage in regional food supply 7hchains ( fsc ) . in this model , we use
   modern generation machine learning techniques to track the amount of food
   waste in fscs and redirect it for productive usage . the future recommended
   model is inferred to be effective across a number of areas based on the
   numerous studies that were conducted
DE food supply chain; food wastage; landfills; productive usage
ID food supply; machine learning; supply chains; area-based; food supply chain;
   food wastages; food waste; machine learning techniques; machine learning;
   productive usage; land fill

---

UT 1525
AR Lopes RZ, 2023, J TEXTURE STUD, V54, P845, DOI 10.1111/jtxs.12792
TI Classification of crispness of food materials by deep neural networks
AU Lopes RZ; Dacanal GC
TC 5
SO J TEXTURE STUD
PY 2023
AB crispness is a textural characteristic that influences consumer choices ,
   requiring a comprehensive understanding for product customization . previous
   studies employing neural networks focused on acquiring audio through
   mechanical crushing of crispy samples . this research investigates the
   representation of crispy sound in time intervals and frequency domains ,
   identifying key parameters to distinguish different foods . two machine
   learning architectures , multi layer perceptron ( mlp ) and residual neural
   network ( resnet ) , were used to analyze mel frequency cepstral
   coefficients ( mfcc ) and discrete fourier transform ( dft ) data ,
   respectively . the models achieved over 95 % accuracy ' in sample '
   successfully classifying fried chicken , potato chips , and toast using
   randomly extracted audio from asmr videos . the mlp ( mfcc ) model
   demonstrated superior robustness compared to resnet and predicted external
   inputs , such as freshly toasted bread acquired by a microphone or asmr
   audio of toast in milk . in contrast , the resnet model proved to be more
   responsive to variations in dft spectrum and unable to predict the
   similarity of external audio sources , making it useful for classifying
   pretrained ' in samples ' . these findings are useful for classifying
   crispness among individual food sources . additionally , the study explores
   the promising utilization of asmr audio from internet platforms to pretrain
   artificial neural network models , expanding the dataset for investigating
   the texture of crispy foods
DE convolutional neural networks; crispness; fried chicken; mathematical
   modeling; potato chips; toast
ID bread; machine learning; neural networks computer; sound; animals;
   convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; multilayer neural
   networks; textures; convolutional neural network; crispness; fried chicken;
   mathematical modeling; mel-frequency cepstral coefficient; mel-frequency
   cepstral coefficients; multilayers perceptrons; neural networks; potato
   chip; toast; artificial neural network; bread; machine learning; sound;
   discrete fourier transforms

---

UT 1526
AR Al Manwari HA, 2023, PROC INT CONF EMERG TECH COMPUT INTELL ICETCI, P258,
   DOI 10.1109/ICETCI58599.2023.10331567
TI Smart Food Analyser: Deterrence of selling Rotten food etymology by Deep
   Neural Network Applications
AU Al Manwari HA; Alzidi AH; Al Abdulsalam AR; Hajamohideen F
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF EMERG TECH COMPUT INTELL ICETCI
PY 2023
AB food is an important source of energy for all living things . sometimes we
   consume or eat food that is not edible , poisonous , or contaminated and
   goes unreported . people grow ill and suffer from serious health problems .
   it costs the government a lot of money to cure illnesses like food poisoning
   . there has not been a lot of study done in this field of food analysis to
   identify rotting meat or other contaminated food items . according to the
   news [ 1 ] , the muscat primary court ordered an eatery to close for a month
   for supplying sandwiches which is unsuitable for eating . the court also
   fined an asian worker 1,000 riyals for making the sandwiches with bad
   chicken flesh . the public authority for consumer protection ( pacp ) works
   hard to keep omani and other nationalities safe from dangerous or unhealthy
   food . other investigations suggest that manual identification of these
   sensitive food products falls short of the criteria . this study develops a
   smart system that uses deep transfer learning to identify and discourage the
   sale of bad food using image processing and artificial intelligence . the
   technology employed in this study assists in identifying dangerous food and
   reporting it to the pacp authority , who then takes the required measures to
   prevent it from being sold in the market . python , keras , tensor flow ,
   and resnet50 were utilized in the system s development . a pre trained
   version of the resnet 50 , a 50-layer convolutional neural network , can be
   used in conjunction with millions of images from the imagenet database [ 2 ]
   . fish , meat , chicken , and a range of other animal food items are among
   the 1000 categories of food that the pretrained network can recognize in
   food photos . the accuracy of 99.14 % is achieved by resnet50 classifiers .
   this research assists pacp and other food companies in detecting and
   avoiding the use of inedible foods . this artificial authority based tool
   identifies food quality using a user friendly interface and informs the
   appropriate authorities . also , this research exhibits results using gradio
   interface and android mobile application . the importance of this study is
   to prevent many omanis from becoming ill as a result of eating such improper
   sustenance in their everyday lives
ID animals; consumer protection; convolutional neural networks; meats; food
   analysis; food poisoning; living things; manual identification; neural
   network application; protection work; public authorities; smart system;
   sources of energy; workers; deep neural networks

---

UT 1527
AR Shaukat H, 2024, J COMPUT BIOMED INF, V2024
TI Enhancing Food Safety: A Machine Learning Approach for Accurate Detection
   and Classification of Food Allergens
AU Shaukat H; Sultan A; Salahuddin H
TC 2
SO J COMPUT BIOMED INF
PY 2024
AB food allergies can severely impact quality of life for patients in certain
   situations . diagnosing food allergies before exposure is expensive and
   risks over diagnosis . the identification of allergenic foods reveals
   significant connections within food allergy data , ultimately benefiting
   patients . the model utilize machine learning technique for detection and
   classification of food allergens . food allergen detection model is proposed
   that predicts if foods contain allergens . the model facilitates doctors and
   nutritional experts in formulating a food list by promoting the retention of
   non allergenic foods , thereby mitigating the risk of nutritional deficits .
   the model scores food descriptors and tests their classification performance
   . random forest , support vector machine , and k nearest neighbors models
   achieved training and validation accuracies of 96.8 % , 93.54 % , and 95.16
   % , respectively . decision tree achieved the highest evaluation accuracy at
   98.4 % . this proposes an approach to understand food allergens nature .
   conducting an in depth analysis of allergen prevalence allows to acquire
   valuable insights into the occurrence of different allergens in various food
   products . the system has the potential to empower personalized recommender
   systems for individuals with dietary restrictions or allergies , enhancing
   their ability to make informed and safe food choices . 2024 , research
   center of computing and biomedical informatics
DE allergy detection; decision tree; food allergy; k-nearest neighbors; machine
   learning; prediction; random forest

---

UT 1528
AR Ge X, 2025, J ADV RES, DOI 10.1016/j.jare.2025.10.018
TI Machine learning for food flavor prediction and regulation: models, data
   integration, and future perspectives
AU Ge X; Zhou Y/1; Li Q/1; Tan Y; Luo Y; Hong H
TC 17
SO J ADV RES
PY 2025
AB background flavor is a central attribute of food quality , shaping consumer
   preferences and market performance . traditional evaluation methods , such
   as sensory panels and basic assays , are often constrained by subjectivity ,
   low throughput , and limited scalability . with the rise of high throughput
   technologies and multimodal datasets , machine learning ( ml ) has emerged
   as a promising tool for deciphering and regulating complex flavor systems .
   aim of review this review examines current flavor detection techniques and
   the application of ml across diverse domains . it compares supervised
   learning models ( svm , dt ) , ensemble algorithms ( xgboost , lightgbm ) ,
   and deep learning approaches ( cnn , ann ) . this review also discusses the
   contribution of three major data dimensions to flavor prediction , as well
   as future prospects in the field . ml enables precise flavor prediction ,
   compound screening , and real time process control . to support these tasks
   , researchers have developed integrated analytical systems that combine
   electronic nose ( e nose ) , electronic tongue ( e tongue ) , gas
   chromatographymass spectrometry ( gcms ) , and gas chromatographyion
   mobility spectrometry ( gc ims ) . ensemble learning and deep learning
   models show strong performance when handling complex , nonlinear datasets .
   explainable artificial intelligence ( xai ) tools such as shapley additive
   explanations ( shap ) improve model transparency by linking predictions to
   underlying features . ml models further enhance both prediction accuracy and
   generalizability . innovations such as attention mechanisms , graph neural
   networks , and digital twins support dynamic flavor modulation . ml also
   aids in identifying key flavor compounds and genotype phenotype
   relationships , accelerating breeding and formulation . key scientific
   concepts of review ml is opening up new technological avenues in flavor
   science , with significant potential to predict and control flavor formation
   mechanisms , verify product authenticity , and support the targeted design
   of flavor active compounds that align with consumer expectations for sensory
   appeal
DE explainable ai; flavor prediction; machine learning; sensory modeling
ID flavoring agent; algorithm; artificial neural network; breeding; data
   integration; deep learning; digital twin; electronic nose; ensemble
   learning; explainable artificial intelligence; flavor; food quality; gas
   chromatography; genotype; graph neural network; high throughput technology;
   human; ion mobility spectrometry; learning; machine learning; mass
   fragmentography; phenotype; prediction; process control; review; shapley
   additive explanation; support vector machine; tongue

---

UT 1529
AR Jha DS, 2023, CYBER SECUR MOD TECHNOL ARTIF INTELL BLOCKCHAIN QUANTUM
   CRYPTOGR, P47, DOI 10.1201/9781003267812-3
TI Analysis of Quantum Computing with Food Processing Use Case
AU Jha DS; Shah H; Verma JP
TC 0
SO CYBER SECUR MOD TECHNOL ARTIF INTELL BLOCKCHAIN QUANTUM CRYPTOGR
PY 2023
AB recent technological advancements in the field of computer architecture have
   witnessed a rapid growth in the speed of solving many computationally
   intensive problems . quantum computing is one of the most promising
   computational technologies . the primary goal of quantum computing is to
   solve large problems that classical computers can not solve because
   classical computers can not perform large numbers of computations in a given
   time period . some algorithms have been implemented to create a quantum
   computer and with different methods and qubits how a quantum computer can be
   generated using different methods . this paper focuses on the fundamentals
   of quantum computing as well as the issues encountered in quantum computing
   with a use case in a food processing system where microbiological food items
   require a high computing power , which can be efficiently performed using
   quantum computing . a solution for the food processing system with quantum
   computing has been proposed , with the output of that computing we can check
   if the food is good for health and whether it should be preferred or not

---

UT 1530
AR Trabelsi M, 2023, BR FOOD J, V125, P482, DOI 10.1108/BFJ-11-2022-1014
TI Unleashing the value of artificial intelligence in the agri-food sector:
   where are we?
AU Trabelsi M; Casprini E; Fiorini N; Zanni L
TC 40
SO BR FOOD J
PY 2023
AB purpose : this study analyzes the literature on artificial intelligence ( ai
   ) and its implications for the agri food sector . this research aims to
   identify the current research streams , main methodologies used , findings
   and results delivered , gaps and future research directions . design /
   methodology / approach : this study relies on 69 published contributions in
   the field of ai in the agri food sector . it begins with a bibliographic
   coupling to map and identify the current research streams and proceeds with
   a systematic literature review to examine the main topics and examine the
   main contributions . findings : six clusters were identified : ( 1 ) ai
   adoption and benefits , ( 2 ) ai for efficiency and productivity , ( 3 ) ai
   for logistics and supply chain management , ( 4 ) ai for supporting decision
   making process for firms and consumers , ( 5 ) ai for risk mitigation and (
   6 ) ai marketing aspects . then , the authors propose an interpretive
   framework composed of three main dimensions : ( 1 ) the two sides of ai :
   the ' hard ' side concerns the technology development and application while
   the ' soft ' side regards stakeholders acceptance of the latter . ( 2 )
   level of analysis : firm and inter firm . ( 3 ) the impact of ai on value
   chain activities in the agri food sector . originality / value : this study
   provides interpretive insights into the extant literature on ai in the agri
   food sector , paving the way for future research and inspiring practitioners
   of different ai approaches in a traditionally low tech sector . 2023 ,
   meriam trabelsi , elena casprini , niccolo fiorini and lorenzo zanni .
DE agri-food; artificial intelligence; bibliometric; systematic literature
   review
ID adoption; article; artificial intelligence; bibliometrics; consumer;
   decision making; human; marketing; mitigation; physician; productivity;
   systematic review

---

UT 1531
AR Jeyanthi P, 2024, INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA - PROC,
   P793, DOI 10.1109/ICECA63461.2024.10800847
TI Artificial Intelligence based Food Nutrients Recommendation System using
   Enhanced Customer Behavior Learning Approaches
AU Jeyanthi P; Durga R
TC 1
SO INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA - PROC
PY 2024
AB digital marketing has made significant steps in leveraging advanced
   technologies such as machine learning to provide personalized
   recommendations to food and nutritional product companies . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , a branch of computer science aimed at imitating
   thought processes , learning abilities and knowledge management , is
   increasingly used in experimental nutrients recommendation . the food and
   nutrition product industry , using data science techniques to recommend
   products based on specific needs and preferences . previous method analysis
   the kids food product analysis failed in feature analysis based on product
   buying consumer behavior in digital marketing . to overcome further problems
   , a new method called spectral spider optimization with fuzzy neural network
   ( sso fnn ) with support vectored neural networks ( svn2 ) to advertise the
   best food items using maximum threshold values for selecting the best
   features is proposed . the svn2 is prediction result based on recommendation
   food , accuracy , precision , recall , f1-score , and error rate and time
   complexity . these metrics uses confusion matrix evaluation and its
   outperforms the previous approaches
DE confusion matrix; customer behavior; fuzzy neural network; kid food items;
   nutrition; recommendation system; support vectored neural networks;
   validation
ID behavior learning; confusion matrix; customer behavior; digital marketing;
   fuzzy neural networks; kid food item; learning approach; neural networks;
   support vectored neural network; validation; fuzzy neural networks

---

UT 1532
AR Shamsu IUB, 2024, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V1184 LNEE, P167, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-2027-9_14
TI Utilizing Color Space Information as Features for Deep Learning for a
   Heterogeneous Food Recognition System
AU Shamsu IUB; Moung EG; Farzamnia A; Rui TL; Yahya F
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2024
AB food recognition serves as one of the most promising applications of visual
   object recognition , as it can be used to calculate food calories and
   analyze people s eating habits and dietary practices for health care
   purposes . it forms the primary and most vital step in developing an
   application capable of providing nutritional recommendations . in this work
   , the cnn , resnet , and alexnet architectures have been proposed , given
   their popularity among researchers . a merged dataset , comprising food 101
   and uec food256 , was employed to evaluate the proposed models . to
   ascertain the optimal color spaces for food recognition , eight selection
   criteria were proposed . among the various color space selection criteria ,
   rgb showed superior performance when used with the custom cnn model . to
   enhance performance , an upsampling method was implemented to increase the
   number of samples in the minority classes . this was achieved by duplicating
   existing samples using an augmentation process , thereby balancing the
   merged dataset . the final results suggest that efficientnetb0 , a cnn based
   pre trained model , performs better with the rgb color space , increasing
   accuracy from 40.48 % ( custom cnn ) to 73.11 % ( efficientnetb0 )
DE color spaces; convolutional neural network ( cnn ); deep learning; food
   recognition; merged dataset
ID rgb color model; color spaces; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   eating habits; food recognition; merged dataset; performance; recognition
   systems; visual object recognition; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1533
AR Reethika A, 2022, DEEP LEARN COGN COMPUT SYST TECHNOL ADV APPL, P113, DOI
   10.1515/9783110750584-007
TI Nutrition food recognition using deep learning algorithm for physically
   challenged human being
AU Reethika A; Jagadesh T; Kanivarshini MS
TC 1
SO DEEP LEARN COGN COMPUT SYST TECHNOL ADV APPL
PY 2022
AB deep learning just surpassed the advancement in the process of food image
   identification . nutrient , a novel deep learning architecture and a
   classification solution of image pixel classification of healthy or
   unhealthy food , is described in this research . this work is mainly focused
   for physically challenged people of their food consumption . some people can
   not be able to know whether the food is good to their health or not . hence
   , we proposed a method to recognize the food in a proper way . the new
   framework was made to approximate nutrition of the food at the image level
   using food pics dataset that contains nutrient images . convolutional neural
   networks , a deep learning approach that has been used successfully in image
   recognition and classification tasks , have been trained with nutrition
   image training data , and a high classification success value has been
   achieved . the arithmetic average nutritional values of the five highest
   predicted nutritional results obtained from the net were taken as the
   approximate nutrient content . these help to recognize the nutrition of food
   by the physically challenged people by themselves without any help of others
DE food consumption; image recognition; nutrition; physically challenged

---

UT 1534
AR Sin-Wai C, 2024, ROUTLEDGE ENCYCL TECHNOL HUMANIT, P127, DOI
   10.4324/9781003195269-9
TI DEEP LEARNING FOR RECIPE GENERATION
AU Sin-Wai C
TC 0
SO ROUTLEDGE ENCYCL TECHNOL HUMANIT
PY 2024
AB food , as we all know , is a very important part of a culture and recipes
   are a major source of useful information in our daily lives . from
   conventional cookbooks to youtube cooking videos , one can find numerous
   cooking ideas and practical instructions readily available through various
   channels . finding or recommending recipes that meet our needs is , however
   , not always an easy task . researchers have studied many intelligent ways
   of meeting such needs using computational methods . deep learning has
   recently opened up interesting and powerful ways to exploit the vast troves
   of recipes and food images amassed in digital forms and support innovative
   use cases in food and health related applications . in his chapter on deep
   learning for recipe generation , professor chan sin wai of caritas institute
   of higher education provides an overview of these use cases , reviewing the
   use of artificial intelligence technology in the visualization of chinese
   recipes with english translations through text ( recipe ) -to image and
   image to text ( recipe ) generators and make human and automatic evaluations
   of their outputs and quality

---

UT 1535
AR Gbashi S, 2024, APPL SCI, V14, DOI 10.3390/app14083421
TI Enhancing Food Integrity through Artificial Intelligence and Machine
   Learning: A Comprehensive Review
AU Gbashi S; Njobeh PB
TC 80
SO APPL SCI
PY 2024
AB herein , we examined the transformative potential of artificial intelligence
   ( ai ) and machine learning ( ml ) as new fronts in addressing some of the
   pertinent challenges posed by food integrity to human and animal health . in
   recent times , ai and ml , along with other industry 4.0 technologies such
   as big data , blockchain , virtual reality , and the internet of things (
   iot ) , have found profound applications within nearly all dimensions of the
   food industry with a key focus on enhancing food safety and quality and
   improving the resilience of the food supply chain . this paper provides an
   accessible scrutiny of these technologies ( in particular , ai and ml ) in
   relation to food integrity and gives a summary of their current advancements
   and applications within the field . key areas of emphasis include the
   application of ai and ml in quality control and inspection , food fraud
   detection , process control , risk assessments , prediction , and management
   , and supply chain traceability , among other critical issues addressed .
   based on the literature reviewed herein , the utilization of ai and ml in
   the food industry has unequivocally led to improved standards of food
   integrity and consequently enhanced public health and consumer trust , as
   well as boosting the resilience of the food supply chain . while these
   applications demonstrate significant promise , the paper also acknowledges
   some of the challenges associated with the domain specific implementation of
   ai in the field of food integrity . the paper further examines the prospects
   and orientations , underscoring the significance of overcoming the obstacles
   in order to fully harness the capabilities of ai and ml in safeguarding the
   integrity of the food system
DE artificial intelligence; food hazards; food integrity; food quality control;
   food safety; machine learning; nutritional health

---

UT 1536
AR Dai X, 2024, FRONT ARTIF INTELL, V7, DOI 10.3389/frai.2024.1442948
TI Robust deep-learning based refrigerator food recognition
AU Dai X
TC 9
SO FRONT ARTIF INTELL
PY 2024
AB automatic food identification utilizing artificial intelligence ( ai )
   technology in smart refrigerators presents an innovative solution . however
   , existing studies exhibit significant limitations . achieving consistent
   high performance in recognition across varying camera distances and diverse
   real world conditions remain a formidable challenge . current approaches
   often struggle to accurately recognize items in scenarios involving
   occlusions , variable distortions , and complex backgrounds , thereby
   limiting their practical applicability in household environments . this
   study addresses these deficiencies by enhancing the feature pyramid network
   ( fpn ) of yolact with an additional layer designed to capture nuanced
   information . furthermore , we propose a two stage data augmentation method
   that simulates diverse conditions including distortion and occlusion , to
   generate images that reflect various backgrounds and handheld scenarios .
   comparative analyzes with previous research and evaluations on our original
   dataset demonstrate that our approach significantly improves recognition
   rates for both typical and challenging real world images . these
   enhancements contribute to more effective food waste management in
   households and indicate broader applications for automatic identification
   systems
DE data augmentation; deep learning; feature pyramid network; food management;
   food recognition; internet of things

---

UT 1537
AR Jafrasteh F, 2023, SCI REP, V13, DOI 10.1038/s41598-023-42699-6
TI Meticulous research for design of plasmonics sensors for cancer detection
   and food contaminants analysis via machine learning and artificial
   intelligence
AU Jafrasteh F; Farmani A; Mohamadi J
TC 39
SO SCI REP
PY 2023
AB cancer is one of the leading causes of death worldwide , making early
   detection and accurate diagnosis critical for effective treatment and
   improved patient outcomes . in recent years , machine learning ( ml ) has
   emerged as a powerful tool for cancer detection , enabling the development
   of innovative algorithms that can analyze vast amounts of data and provide
   accurate predictions . this review paper aims to provide a comprehensive
   overview of the various ml algorithms and techniques employed for cancer
   detection , highlighting recent advancements , challenges , and future
   directions in this field . the main challenge is finding a safe , auditable
   and reliable analysis method for fundamental scientific publication . food
   contaminant analysis is a process of testing food products to identify and
   quantify the presence of harmful substances or contaminants . these
   substances can include bacteria , viruses , toxins , pesticides , heavy
   metals , allergens , and other chemical residues . machine learning ( ml )
   and artificial intelligence ( a . i ) proposed as a promising method that
   possesses excellent potential to extract information with high validity that
   may be overlooked with conventional analysis techniques and for its
   capability in a wide range of investigations . a . i technology used in meta
   optics can develop optical devices and systems to a higher level in future .
   furthermore ( m . l . ) and ( a . i . ) play key roles as a health approach
   for nano materials nms safety assessment in environment and human health
   research . beside , benefits of ml in design of plasmonic sensors for
   different applications with improved resolution and detection are convinced
   . 2023 , springer nature limited .
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; food analysis; humans; machine
   learning; neoplasms; optical devices; algorithm; artificial intelligence;
   food analysis; human; machine learning; neoplasm

---

UT 1538
AR Bahirat AD, 2024, FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V12, P24, DOI 10.13189/fst.2024.120103
TI Diet Consultation Using Artificial Intelligence
AU Bahirat AD; Dixit B; Dixit A
TC 2
SO FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB india accounts for around 11 % of the total number of diabetes patients in
   the world , and 5 % of the total population is affected by morbid obesity .
   the indian average income is around $ 179 ( rs . 14686.12 at $ 1 = rs . 82.5
   ) , which makes it important to have a cheaper and more effective way of
   solving the problem related diet . with advancements in the artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) domain , everyone can appreciate how it can be used to
   improve and manage a person s diet . the artificial intelligence dietician (
   aid ) enables people to learn about human diets using artificial
   intelligence . the main motive of this study is to develop an ai based web
   application that will function as a diet advisor in the same way as a
   trained dietician would . the work is based on the collection and analysis
   of information provided by the individual user , such as his height , weight
   , age , etc . these inputs are used to design an ai based system that
   functions like a trained dietician and is able to provide diet
   recommendations . the system calculates the nutrient cost and suggests food
   items to meet individuals nutritional requirements . the food that shall be
   consumed can be detected by clicking a photo or uploading , and the daily
   consumption of calories is being tracked . the system provides food
   classification accuracy of around 85 % for the food image uploaded for food
   identification . the system further recommends the best diet to clients
   purely based on the regulations and demands confirmation . 2024 by authors ,
   all rights reserved .
DE application ai; cnn; dieticians; dl; nlp; web

---

UT 1539
AR Yang K, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11203268
TI Experimental Study of Garlic Root Cutting Based on Deep Learning Application
   in Food Primary Processing
AU Yang K; Yu Z/1; Gu F; Zhang Y/13; Wang S/3; Peng B; Hu Z
TC 7
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB garlic root cutting is generally performed manually . it is easy for the
   workers to sustain hand injuries , and the labor efficiency is low . however
   , the significant differences between individual garlic bulbs limit the
   development of an automatic root cutting system . to address this problem ,
   a deep learning model based on transfer learning and a low cost computer
   vision module was used to automatically detect garlic bulb position , adjust
   the root cutter , and cut garlic roots on a garlic root cutting test bed .
   the proposed object detection model achieved good performance and high
   detection accuracy , running speed , and detection reliability . the visual
   image of the output layer channel of the backbone network showed the high
   level features extracted by the network vividly , and the differences in
   learning of different networks clearly . the position differences of the
   cutting lines predicted by different backbone networks were analyzed through
   data visualization . the excellent and stable performance indicated that the
   proposed model had learned the correct features in the data of different
   brightness . finally , the root cutting system was verified experimentally .
   the results of three experiments with 100 garlic bulbs each indicated that
   the mean qualified value of the system was 96 % . therefore , the proposed
   deep learning system can be applied in garlic root cutting which belongs to
   food primary processing
DE artificial intelligence; convolutional neural network; garlic root cutting;
   object detection; yolo

---

UT 1540
AR Niu C, 2024, INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG, V17, P15, DOI
   10.25165/j.ijabe.20241705.8975
TI Review of the deep learning for food image processing
AU Niu C; Ying X; Pei G; Hu M/1; Zhai G
TC 8
SO INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG
PY 2024
AB as deep learning techniques are increasingly applied with greater depth and
   sophistication the food industry , the realm of food image processing has
   progressively emerged as a central focus of research interest . this work
   provides an overview of key practices in food image processing techniques ,
   detailing common processing tasks including classification , recognition ,
   detection , segmentation , and image retrieval , as well as outlining
   metrics for evaluating task performance and thoroughly examining existing
   food image datasets , along with specialized food related datasets . in
   terms of methodology , this work offers insight into the evolution of food
   image processing , tracing its development from traditional methods
   extracting low and intermediate level features to advanced deep learning
   techniques for high level feature extraction , along with some synergistic
   fusion of these approaches . it is believed that these methods will play a
   significant role in practical application scenarios such as self checkout
   systems , dietary health management , intelligent food service , disease
   etiology tracing , chronic disease management and food safety monitoring .
   however , due to the complex content and various types of distortions in
   food images , further improvements in related methods are needed to meet the
   requirements of practical applications in the future . it is believed that
   this study can help researchers to further understand the research in the
   field of food imaging and provide some contribution to the advancement of
   research in this field . 2024 , chinese society of agricultural engineering
DE deep learning; dietary health; feature extraction; food image processing

---

UT 1541
AR Khan MI, 2022, ARAB J SCI ENG, V47, P10823, DOI 10.1007/s13369-022-06754-0
TI Automatic Prediction of Glycemic Index Category from Food Images Using
   Machine Learning Approaches
AU Khan MI; Acharya B; Chaurasiya RK
TC 6
SO ARAB J SCI ENG
PY 2022
AB the dietary glycemic index ( gi ) is a mechanism , whereby carbohydrate
   containing foods are assigned a number according to how much each food
   raises blood sugar . it plays a very important role in the health of a
   person as this affects significantly metabolic disorders especially when
   counts for diabetes and obesity . serious interventions are therefore
   required for gi in terms of medical perspective . there are a series of
   breakthroughs , which attempt to improvise the classification of food types
   from food images using machine learning ( ml ) techniques . however , no
   research is reported for the classification of food type based on the food
   gi . therefore , the proposed work investigates food image classification
   based on their gi index category . the work is the first of its kind . the
   proposed framework is employed on food images from foodpics_extended
   databases that are based on international gi tables of three food categories
   for low , medium , and high . an extensive range of texture , statistical ,
   and shape features was extracted from the images . thereafter , experiments
   were performed with five different categories of classifiers , viz .
   adaboost with random forest ( rf ) , j48 decision tree , k nearest neighbor
   ( knn ) classifier , naive bayes classifier , and sequential minimal
   optimization ( smo ) -based support vector machine ( svm ) classifier .
   statistical analysis was conducted to compare the effectiveness of the
   different methods . though no method performs significantly better than
   others , we observed that the overall performance of the adaboost ( rf )
   ensemble model provided better classification accuracy in finding the
   category of food image gi index . 2022 , king fahd university of petroleum
   and minerals .
DE classification; food database; food images; glycemic index; machine
   learning; performance evaluation

---

UT 1542
AR Rathod K, 2024, PARUL INT CONF ENG TECHNOL PICET, DOI
   10.1109/PICET60765.2024.10716185
TI Food Recognition Using Deep Learning: An Automated Approach for Accurate
   Food Item Identification
AU Rathod K; Thacker C; Adhvaryu R
TC 2
SO PARUL INT CONF ENG TECHNOL PICET
PY 2024
AB the field of deep learning based automated food recognition has garnered
   significant traction and boasts a wide array of applications , ranging from
   health evaluation to diet tracking . with a focal point on enhancing
   performance through transfer learning coupled with fine tuning , this study
   presents a comprehensive exploration of food recognition employing deep
   learning methodologies . we leverage three publicly accessible datasets :
   food11 , uec food100 , and ueh vdr , each posing distinct challenges in food
   item identification . augmenting the training datasets of all three datasets
   contributes to bolstering model robustness and generalization . both with
   and without fine tuning , transfer learning is applied utilizing the
   densenet 121 and resnet152v2 architectures . our methodology showcases the
   efficacy of our approach in addressing domain specific challenges , as
   evidenced by a noteworthy 1.88 percentage point increase in accuracy ,
   particularly notable on the ueh vdr dataset . the outcomes of the
   experiments demonstrate how effective fine tuning techniques and transfer
   learning are at reaching the highest levels of performance in food
   recognition tests . this work establishes the foundation for future
   developments in this field and advances the automation of food item
   recognition
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; dish recognition; food
   recognition; transfer learning
ID federated learning; food chemistry; automated approach; convolutional neural
   network; deep learning; dish recognition; fine tuning; focal points; food
   recognition; health evaluation; performance; transfer learning; food
   ingredients

---

UT 1543
AR Yang C, 2023, J UNIV SCI TECHNOL CHINA, V53, P1203–1, DOI
   10.52396/JUSTC-2023-0067
TI Machine-learning diet quality score and risk of cardiovascular disease
AU Yang C; Li Q; Liu Y/1; Zhang L/3; Gao J/3; Xu XS; Yuan M
TC 0
SO J UNIV SCI TECHNOL CHINA
PY 2023
AB objectives : various diet scores have been established to measure overall
   diet quality , especially for the prevention of cardiovascular disease ( cvd
   ) . diet scores constructed by utilizing modern machine learning techniques
   may con tain independent information and can provide better dietary
   recommendations in combination with the existing diet scores . methods : we
   proposed a novel machine learning diet quality score ( dqs ) and examined
   the performance of dqs in combination with the healthy eating index 2015 (
   hei2015 ) , mediterranean diet score ( med ) , alternative healthy eating in
   dex 2010 ( ahei ) and dietary approaches to stop hypertension score ( dash
   score ) . the data used in this study were from the 20112012 to 20172018
   cycles of the us national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes )
   . participants aged above 20 self reported their food intake and information
   on relevant covariates . we used an elastic net pen alty regression model to
   select important food features and used a generalized linear regression
   model to estimate odds ra tios ( ors ) and 95 % cis after controlling for
   age , sex , and other relevant covariates . results : a total of 16756
   participants were included in the analysis . dqs was significantly
   associated with coronary artery disease ( cad ) risk after adjusting for one
   of the other common diet scores . the ors for dqs combined with the hei2015
   , med , ahei , and dash scores were all approximately 0.900 , with p values
   smaller than 0.05. the or for dqs in the full score model including all
   other scores was 0.905 ( 95 % ci , 0.8280.989 , p=0.028 ) . only marginal
   associations were found between dqs and other cvds after adjusting for other
   diet scores . conclusions : based on data from four continuous cycles of the
   nhanes , higher dqs was found to be consistently associated with a lower
   risk of cad . the dqs captured unique predictive information independent of
   the existing diet scores and thus can be used as a complementary scoring
   system to further improve dietary recommendations for cad patients
DE cardiovascular disease; diet quality scores; machine learning method; the us
   national health and nutrition examination survey ( nhanes )

---

UT 1544
AR Sarikhani Z, 2024, IRAN J INFO PRO MANAG, V39, P299, DOI
   10.22034/JIPM.2024.711533
TI Road Mapping of Artificial Intelligence Technologies for the Food Industry:
   A TDE Approach
AU Sarikhani Z; Dolatabad KM; Azar A
TC 0
SO IRAN J INFO PRO MANAG
PY 2024
AB this paper discusses the application of the technology development envelope
   ( tde ) as a road mapping tool in combination with the delphi method and the
   analytic hierarchy process ( ahp ) . the method helps policy and decision
   makers in organizations strategically manage emerging technologies by
   mapping their anticipated development path . the paper focused on creating a
   technology development envelope ( tde ) for artificial intelligence ( ai )
   technologies in the food industry . in the first step , an expert panel
   identified a list of ai technologies applicable to the food industry . a
   hierarchical decision making model , comprising 5 criteria and 24 sub
   criteria for technology evaluation , was extracted from the literature and
   validated using the delphi method . the analytic hierarchy process ( ahp )
   was used to determine the relative importance of criteria and sub criteria
   for evaluating the identified technologies . at this stage , the most
   important criteria considered were food safety and social and political
   acceptance of the technology . the expected value of each technology was
   calculated over different periods , resulting in the development of the
   technology development evaluation ( tde ) for ai technologies in the food
   industry within a ten year horizon . the analysis of the future indicates
   that technologies such as computer vision , robotics , industrial automation
   , and machine learning will undergo continuous improvements over time and
   eventually become dominant technologies in the food industry . these
   advancements can lead to an increase in quality and efficiency within the
   food industry . finally , sensitivity analysis was conducted to test the
   model s sensitivity and explore how policymakers extreme strategies affect
   the model s outputs . 2024 iranian research institute for scientific
   information and documentation
DE artificial intelligence technologies; food industry; technology development
   envelop; technology roadmap

---

UT 1545
AR Wang Q, 2023, PUBLIC HEAL, V11, DOI 10.3389/fpubh.2023.1196090
TI Deep neural network for prediction of diet quality among doctors and nurses
   in North China during the COVID-19 pandemic
AU Wang Q; Chu H; Li H/8; Li C; Li S/1; Fang H; Liang D; Deng T; Li J/4; Liu A
TC 1
SO PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2023
AB objective : the covid 19 pandemic has placed unprecedented pressure on front
   line healthcare workers , leading to poor health status , especially diet
   quality . this study aimed to develop a diet quality prediction model and
   determine the predictive effects of personality traits , socioeconomic
   status , lifestyles , and individual and working conditions on diet quality
   among doctors and nurses during the covid 19 pandemic . methods : a total of
   5,013 doctors and nurses from thirty nine covid 19 designated hospitals
   provided valid responses in north china in 2022 . participants data related
   to social demographic characteristics , lifestyles , sleep quality ,
   personality traits , burnout , work related conflicts , and diet quality
   were collected with questionnaires . deep neural network ( dnn ) was applied
   to develop a diet quality prediction model among doctors and nurses during
   the covid 19 pandemic . results : the mean score of diet quality was 46.14
   15.08. specifically , the mean scores for variety , adequacy , moderation ,
   and overall balance were 14.33 3.65 , 17.99 5.73 , 9.41 7.33 , and 4.41 2.98
   , respectively . the current study developed a dnn model with a 213028-1
   network framework for diet quality prediction . the dnn model achieved high
   prediction efficacy , and values of r2 , mae , mse , and rmse were 0.928 ,
   0.048 , 0.004 , and 0.065 , respectively . among doctors and nurses in north
   china , the top five predictors in the diet quality prediction model were
   bmi , poor sleep quality , workfamily conflict , negative emotional eating ,
   and nutrition knowledge . conclusion : during the covid 19 pandemic , poor
   diet quality is prevalent among doctors and nurses in north china . machine
   learning models can provide an automated identification mechanism for the
   prediction of diet quality . this study suggests that integrated
   interventions can be a promising approach to improving diet quality among
   doctors and nurses , particularly weight management , sleep quality
   improvement , work family balance , decreased emotional eating , and
   increased nutrition knowledge
DE china; covid-19 pandemic; deep neural network; diet quality; doctors and
   nurses
ID covid-19; diet; health personnel; humans; pandemics; physicians; coronavirus
   disease 2019; diet; health care personnel; human; pandemic; physician;
   psychology

---

UT 1546
AR Clarinda K, 2024, INT CONF SUSTAIN COMMUN NETWORKS APPL ICSCNA - PROC,
   P1800, DOI 10.1109/ICSCNA63714.2024.10864099
TI Leveraging Machine Learning Algorithms to Optimize Diet Maintenance Based on
   User Food Intake and Fitness Data
AU Clarinda K; Deepa N; Dhamotharan R; Krishnan RS; Raj JRF; Anchitaalagammai
   JV
TC 4
SO INT CONF SUSTAIN COMMUN NETWORKS APPL ICSCNA - PROC
PY 2024
AB the increasing prevalence of lifestyle related health issues has
   necessitated the development of innovative approaches to diet management .
   this research introduces the adaptive eating pattern predictor ( aepp ) , a
   novel machine learning algorithm designed to optimize diet maintenance by
   analyzing user food intake and fitness data . the aepp combines the
   predictive capabilities of artificial neural networks ( ann ) with the
   probabilistic modeling of markov chains , enabling accurate forecasting of
   future eating patterns based on historical dietary and activity data . a
   comprehensive simulation analysis was conducted to evaluate the performance
   of the aepp against existing algorithms , including traditional
   recommendation systems and basic machine learning models . various
   simulation metrics , such as accuracy , precision , recall , and f1 score ,
   were employed to compare the effectiveness of the aepp in providing
   personalized dietary recommendations . the results demonstrate that the aepp
   significantly outperforms existing algorithms , highlighting its potential
   as a valuable tool for individuals seeking to maintain a balanced diet in
   alignment with their fitness goals . this study contributes to the field of
   nutritional science by showcasing the advantages of integrating advanced
   machine learning techniques in personal diet management
DE adaptive eating pattern predictor; artificial neural networks; diet
   management; fitness data; markov chains; personalized nutrition; predictive
   modeling
ID adaptive eating pattern predictor; diet management; fitness data; food
   intake; health issues; innovative approaches; machine learning algorithms;
   neural networks; personalized nutrition; predictive models; adversarial
   machine learning

---

UT 1547
AR Ma W, 2024, FOODS, V13, DOI 10.3390/foods13132144
TI Nutrition-Related Knowledge Graph Neural Network for Food Recommendation
AU Ma W; Li M/4; Dai J/1; Ding J; Chu Z; Chen H/3
TC 19
SO FOODS
PY 2024
AB food recommendation systems are becoming increasingly vital in modern
   society , given the fast paced lifestyle and diverse dietary habits .
   existing research and implemented solutions often rely on user preferences
   and past behaviors for recommendations , which poses significant issues .
   firstly , this approach inadequately considers the nutritional content of
   foods , potentially leading to recommendations that are overly homogeneous
   and lacking in diversity . secondly , it may result in repetitive
   suggestions of the same types of foods , thereby encouraging users to
   develop unhealthy dietary habits that could adversely affect their overall
   health . to address this issue , we introduce a novel nutrition related
   knowledge graph ( nrkg ) method based on graph convolutional networks ( gcns
   ) . this method not only enhances users ability to select appropriate foods
   but also encourages the development of healthy eating habits , thereby
   contributing to overall public health . the nrkg method comprises two key
   components : user nutrition related food preferences and recipe nutrition
   components . the first component gathers nutritional information from
   recipes that users show interest in and synthesizes these data for user
   reference . the second component connects recipes with similar nutritional
   profiles , forming a complex heterogeneous graph structure . by learning
   from this graph , the nrkg method integrates user preferences with
   nutritional data , resulting in more accurate and personalized food
   recommendations . we evaluated the nrkg method against six baseline methods
   using real world food datasets . in the 100 % dataset , the five metrics
   exceeded the performance of the best baseline method by 2.8 % , 5.9 % , 1.5
   % , 9.7 % , and 6.0 % , respectively . the results indicate that our nrkg
   method significantly outperforms the baseline methods , including feastnet ,
   deepgcn , graphsage , gat , unimp , and gatv2 , demonstrating its
   superiority and effectiveness in promoting healthier and more diverse eating
   habits . unlike these baseline methods , which primarily focus on
   hierarchical information propagation , our nrkg method offers a more
   comprehensive approach by integrating the nutritional information of recipes
   with user preferences
DE food; graph neural networks; heterogeneous graph; recommendation systems

---

UT 1548
AR Impoco G, 2015, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9386, P651, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-25903-1_56
TI Image analysis and microscopy in food science: computer vision and visual
   inspection
AU Impoco G
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2015
AB rheological properties of food products are strongly related to their
   microstructure . microscopy is thus a preferred tool in food research . in
   food science , microscopy has long been used for visual inspection .
   recently , however , quantitative analysis has become the new trend . in
   spite of this , only a few experts in computer vision are actively involved
   into image analysis projects , applied to food microscopy . microscopists
   tend to use simple tools , without bothering whether they are appropriate
   for their application . as a consequence , most published work in food
   science journals lacks scientific rigor , when it comes to analyzing images
   . on the other hand , image analysis experts tend to undervalue
   microscopists needs and opinions , which can be surprisingly different from
   what most people in the computer vision community might think . drawing upon
   our experience , we try to highlight microscopists perspective on image
   segmentation and , at the same time , show a few examples of collaborative
   projects that compute interesting measures for the food science community ,
   that do not rely on segmentation accuracy
DE food; geometry; image analysis; microscopy
ID computer vision; food products; geometry; image segmentation; microscopic
   examination; collaborative projects; food microscopy; food research; food
   science; rheological property; segmentation accuracy; vision communities;
   visual inspection; image analysis

---

UT 1549
AR Ravikumar A, 2022, ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV, P257, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-5141-0.ch014
TI The role of machine learning and computer vision in the agri-food industry
AU Ravikumar A
TC 2
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV
PY 2022
AB the food industry has been unable to control the demand supply cycle and has
   also fallen short on food safety due to human engagement . food production
   and distribution activities may be controlled more efficiently while also
   improving operational competence using an artificial intelligence based
   solution . the food industry s future is entirely reliant on drones and also
   witty and robotic farming , thanks to ai and machine learning . smart
   farming ( soil monitoring , pest monitoring , and fertilizer management ) ,
   food processing ( production , processing , marketing , and customer
   feedback ) , and food safety , among other topics , need a detailed
   evaluation of machine learning applications in the agrifood business . it is
   vital to monitor production lines to ensure that the manufacturing process
   and products fulfill the required quality standards . a plethora of data may
   now be created throughout the production process due to growing digitization

---

UT 1550
AR Xiao J, 2009, INT CONF MANAG INNOV MANAG IND ENG ICIII, V1, P545, DOI
   10.1109/ICIII.2009.137
TI The research on the BP neural network application in food supply chain risk
   management
AU Xiao J; Zhang D; Ma Z/1
TC 3
SO INT CONF MANAG INNOV MANAG IND ENG ICIII
PY 2009
AB this article has conducted the research to the food supply chain s security
   problem from the supply chain risk management perspective . the article has
   constructed food quality safe early warning model by the using of the bp
   neural network method , and has carried out the simulation testing to the
   model . the result has confirmed that the model is ideal and the applicable
DE bp neural network; food supply chain; risk management
ID agriculture; computer simulation; food supply; industrial engineering;
   information management; innovation; neural networks; risk analysis; risk
   management; supply chains; bp neural networks; early warning; food quality;
   security problems; supply chain risk management; supply chain management

---

UT 1551
AR Hiura S, 2021, SCI REP, V11, DOI 10.1038/s41598-021-90164-z
TI Prediction of population behavior of Listeria monocytogenes in food using
   machine learning and a microbial growth and survival database
AU Hiura S; Koseki S; Koyama K
TC 60
SO SCI REP
PY 2021
AB in predictive microbiology , statistical models are employed to predict
   bacterial population behavior in food using environmental factors such as
   temperature , ph , and water activity . as the amount and complexity of data
   increase , handling all data with high dimensional variables becomes a
   difficult task . we propose a data mining approach to predict bacterial
   behavior using a database of microbial responses to food environments .
   listeria monocytogenes , which is one of pathogens , population growth and
   inactivation data under 1,007 environmental conditions , including five food
   categories ( beef , culture medium , pork , seafood , and vegetables ) and
   temperatures ranging from 0 to 25 c , were obtained from the combase
   database ( www . combase . cc ) . we used extreme gradient boosting tree , a
   machine learning algorithm , to predict bacterial population behavior from
   eight explanatory variables : time , temperature , ph , water activity ,
   initial cell counts , whether the viable count is initial cell number , and
   two types of categories regarding food . the root mean square error of the
   observed and predicted values was approximately 1.0 log cfu regardless of
   food category , and this suggests the possibility of predicting viable
   bacterial counts in various foods . the data mining approach examined here
   will enable the prediction of bacterial population behavior in food by
   identifying hidden patterns within a large amount of data
ID colony count microbial; databases as topic; food microbiology; hydrogen-ion
   concentration; listeria monocytogenes; machine learning; microbial
   viability; models biological; temperature; bacterial count; biological
   model; cytology; data base; food control; growth development and aging;
   listeria monocytogenes; machine learning; microbial viability; ph;
   temperature

---

UT 1552
AR Ayon SA, 2021, PROC - IEEE NATL COMPUT COLL CONF NCCC, DOI
   10.1109/NCCC49330.2021.9428820
TI FoodieCal: A Convolutional Neural Network Based Food Detection and Calorie
   Estimation System
AU Ayon SA; Mashrafi CZ; Yousuf AB; Hossain F; Hossain MI
TC 25
SO PROC - IEEE NATL COMPUT COLL CONF NCCC
PY 2021
AB according to recent studies across the world , we can see that a healthy
   diet is the key to having a sound health and body . people nowadays are more
   concerned with their diets than ever before . with the advancement of
   science , it is now viable to construct a unique food identification system
   for keeping track of day to day calorie intake . however , building this
   kind of system creates several complications on constructing and
   implementing the model . in our paper , we have developed a new neural
   network based model which will predict the food items from a given image and
   show us the estimated calorie of the detected food items . in order to
   achieve our goal , we have prepared a dataset of around 23000 images for 23
   different food categories . for this , we have built a system which can
   detect multiple foods by training cnn with features extracted by inception
   v3 . we have achieved 89.48 % accuracy for this model and we deployed our
   system on a webpage . the user has to upload an image of food item in the
   webpage and our system will predict the food item along with the estimated
   calories in real time
DE cnn; food detection; inceptionv3; resnet
ID websites; calorie estimations; food detection; healthy diet; network-based
   modeling; real time; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1553
AR [Anonymous], 2021, INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS, P542, DOI
   10.1109/ICACCS51430.2021.9441889
TI Automated Food image Classification using Deep Learning approach
TC 31
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS
PY 2021
AB food image classification is an emerging research field due to its
   increasing benefits in the health and medical sectors . for sure , in the
   future automated food recognition tools will help in developing diet
   monitoring systems , calories estimation and so on . in this paper ,
   automated methods of food classification using deep learning approaches are
   presented . squeezenet and vgg 16 convolutional neural networks are used for
   food image classification . it is demonstrated that using data augmentation
   and by fine tuning the hyperparameters , these networks exhibited much
   better performance , making these networks suitable for practical
   applications in health and medical fields . squeezenet being a lightweight
   network , is easier to deploy and often more desirable . even with fewer
   parameters , squeezenet is able to achieve quite a good accuracy of 77.20 %
   . higher accuracy of food image classification is further achieved by
   extracting complex features of food images . the performance of automatic
   food image classification is further improved by the proposed vgg 16 network
   . due to increased network depth , proposed vgg 16 has achieved significant
   improvement in accuracy up to 85.07 %
DE deep learning; food classification; image processing; machine learning;
   squeezenet; transfer learning; vgg16
ID automation; convolutional neural networks; image classification; image
   enhancement; medical imaging; automated methods; data augmentation;
   hyperparameters; learning approach; medical fields; monitoring system;
   network depths; research fields; deep learning

---

UT 1554
AR Martinez-Mayorga K, 2013, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V61, P7507, DOI
   10.1021/jf401019b
TI Systematic mining of generally recognized as safe (GRAS) flavor chemicals
   for bioactive compounds
AU Martinez-Mayorga K; Peppard TL; López-Vallejo F; Yongye AB; Medina-Franco
   JL/1
TC 31
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2013
AB bioactive food compounds can be both therapeutically and nutritionally
   relevant . screening strategies are widely employed to identify bioactive
   compounds from edible plants . flavor additives contained in the so called
   fema gras ( generally recognized as safe ) list of approved flavoring
   ingredients is an additional source of potentially bioactive compounds .
   this work used the principles of molecular similarity to identify compounds
   with potential mood modulating properties . the ability of certain gras
   molecules to inhibit histone deacetylase 1 ( hdac1 ) , proposed as an
   important player in mood modulation , was assayed . two gras chemicals were
   identified as hdac1 inhibitors in the micromolar range , results similar to
   what was observed for the structurally related mood prescription drug
   valproic acid . additional studies on bioavailability , toxicity at higher
   concentrations , and off target effects are warranted . the methodology
   described in this work could be employed to identify potentially bioactive
   flavor chemicals present in the fema gras list . 2013 american chemical
   society .
DE bioactive food components; chemoinformatics; databases; food informatics;
   gras; histone deacetylase-1 ( hdac1 ); natural products; small molecules;
   structural similarity
ID biochemistry; chemicals; database systems; molecules; bioactive food
   components; chemoinformatics; food informatics; gras; histone deacetylase-1
   ( hdac1 ); natural products; small molecules; structural similarity; flavor
   compounds

---

UT 1555
AR Velesaca HO, 2021, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V187, DOI
   10.1016/j.compag.2021.106287
TI Computer vision based food grain classification: A comprehensive survey
AU Velesaca HO; Suárez PL; Mira R; Sappa AD
TC 70
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2021
AB this manuscript presents a comprehensive survey on recent computer vision
   based food grain classification techniques . it includes state of the art
   approaches intended for different grain varieties . the approaches proposed
   in the literature are analyzed according to the processing stages considered
   in the classification pipeline , making it easier to identify common
   techniques and comparisons . additionally , the type of images considered by
   each approach ( i . e . , images from the : visible , infrared ,
   multispectral , hyperspectral bands ) together with the strategy used to
   generate ground truth data ( i . e . , real and synthetic images ) are
   reviewed . finally , conclusions highlighting future needs and challenges
   are presented
DE computer vision approaches; food grain identification; machine vision;
   quality inspection
ID surveys; classification technique; computer vision approach; food grain;
   food grain identification; machine vision; multispectral; processing stage;
   quality inspection; state of the art approach; vision based; computer
   vision; crop plant; cultivar; dataset; detection method; survey method;
   computer vision

---

UT 1556
AR Wu D, 2013, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V29, P5, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2012.08.004
TI Colour measurements by computer vision for food quality control - A review
AU Wu D; Sun D-W/1
TC 538
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2013
AB colour is the first quality attribute of food evaluated by consumers , and
   is therefore an important component of food quality relevant to market
   acceptance . rapid and objective measurement of food color is required in
   quality control for the commercial grading of products . computer vision is
   a promising technique currently investigated for food color measurement ,
   especially with the ability of providing a detailed characterization of
   color uniformity at pixel based level . this paper reviews the fundamentals
   and applications of computer vision for food color measurement .
   introduction of color space and traditional color measurements is also given
   . at last , advantages and disadvantages of computer vision for color
   measurement are analyzed and its future trends are proposed
ID color; colorimetry; quality control; color measurement; color spaces; food
   quality; future trends; market acceptance; objective measurement; quality
   attributes; computer vision

---

UT 1557
AR Zingg R, 2021, CEUR WORK PROC, V3116
TI Smart Food Waste Management - Embedded Machine Learning vs Cloud Based
   Solutions
AU Zingg R; Andermatt P; Mazloumian A; Rosenthal M
TC 1
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2021
AB in switzerland , 2.8 million tons of food are lost or wasted across all
   stages of food production every year . this equates to approximately 330 kg
   of food waste per person . by analyzing and classifying discarded food with
   a smart waste analysis system combined with machine learning , valuable
   insights can be gained and the amount of wasted food can be significantly
   reduced . in this paper , we present how we have developed an embedded
   system which helps to solve this task . the embedded system operates in a
   decentralized manner : it captures an image every time food is thrown into a
   bin . the discarded food is identified and classified with machine learning
   algorithms . this provides a detailed insight into the structure of food
   waste for customers , e . g . restaurants or canteens . we implemented the
   machine learning algorithm directly on the embedded systems control unit .
   we found that running machine learning directly on embedded devices has many
   advantages compared to running them in the cloud : we saved significant
   amounts of cloud storage and reduced power consumption by up to a factor
   100. in addition , privacy was increased and required bandwidth reduced
   because only the machine learning results are forwarded to the cloud , not
   the full data . 2021 copyright for this paper by its authors
DE embedded inference; embedded machine learning; food waste; iot; tensorrt
ID digital storage; embedded systems; learning algorithms; machine learning;
   waste management; cloud-based; embedded inference; embedded machine
   learning; embedded machines; embedded-system; food waste; machine learning
   algorithms; machine learning; switzerland; tensorrt; internet of things

---

UT 1558
AR Sun D-W/1, 2016, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD QUAL EVAL ED, P1, DOI
   10.1016/C2014-0-01718-2
TI Computer Vision Technology for Food Quality Evaluation: Second Edition
AU Sun D-W/1
TC 111
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD QUAL EVAL ED
PY 2016
AB computer vision technology for food quality evaluation , second edition
   continues to be a valuable resource to engineers , researchers , and
   technologists in research and development , as well as a complete reference
   to students interested in this rapidly expanding field . this new edition
   highlights the most recent developments in imaging processing and analysis
   techniques and methodology , captures cutting edge developments in computer
   vision technology , and pinpoints future trends in research and development
   for food quality and safety evaluation and control . it is a unique
   reference that provides a deep understanding of the issues of data
   acquisition and image analysis and offers techniques to solve problems and
   further develop efficient methods for food quality assessment . thoroughly
   explains what computer vision technology is , what it can do , and how to
   apply it for food quality evaluation . includes a wide variety of computer
   vision techniques and applications to evaluate a wide variety of foods .
   describes the pros and cons of different techniques for quality evaluation .
   2016 , 2008 elsevier inc
ID computer vision; cutting; data acquisition; food safety; petroleum reservoir
   evaluation; analysis techniques; computer vision techniques; computer vision
   technology; food quality and safeties; future trends; imaging processing;
   quality evaluation; research and development; quality control

---

UT 1559
AR Park D/1, 2021, INT CONF UBIQUITOUS ROBOT UR, P499, DOI
   10.1109/UR52253.2021.9494704
TI Deep learning based food instance segmentation using synthetic data
AU Park D/1; Lee J/6; Lee J/1; Lee K
TC 30
SO INT CONF UBIQUITOUS ROBOT UR
PY 2021
AB in the process of intelligently segmenting foods in images using deep neural
   networks for diet management , data collection and labeling for network
   training are very important but labor intensive tasks . in order to solve
   the difficulties of data collection and annotations , this paper proposes a
   food segmentation method applicable to real world through synthetic data .
   to perform food segmentation on healthcare robot systems , such as meal
   assistance robot arm , we generate synthetic data using the open source 3d
   graphics software blender placing multiple objects on meal plate and train
   mask r cnn for instance segmentation . also , we build a data collection
   system and verify our segmentation model on real world food data . as a
   result , on our real world dataset , the model trained only synthetic data
   is available to segment food instances that are not trained with 52.2 % mask
   ap@all , and improve performance by +6.4 % p after fine tuning comparing to
   the model trained from scratch . in addition , we also confirm the
   possibility and performance improvement on the public dataset for fair
   analysis
ID agricultural robots; data acquisition; deep neural networks; information
   management; open source software; open systems; robots; data collection
   system; improve performance; labor intensive; meal-assistance robots;
   multiple objects; network training; segmentation methods; segmentation
   models; deep learning

---

UT 1560
AR Shahroodi T, 2022, IEEE ACCESS, V10, P82493, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3195878
TI Demeter: A Fast and Energy-Efficient Food Profiler Using Hyperdimensional
   Computing in Memory
AU Shahroodi T; Zahedi M; Firtina C; Alser M; Wong S; Mutlu O; Hamdioui S
TC 23
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2022
AB food profiling is an essential step in any food monitoring system needed to
   prevent health risks and potential frauds in the food industry . significant
   improvements in sequencing technologies are pushing food profiling to become
   the main computational bottleneck . state of the art profilers are
   unfortunately too costly for food profiling . our goal is to design a food
   profiler that solves the main limitations of existing profilers , namely ( 1
   ) working on massive data structures and ( 2 ) incurring considerable data
   movement , for a real time monitoring system . to this end , we propose
   demeter , the first platform independent framework for food profiling .
   demeter overcomes the first limitation through the use of hyperdimensional
   computing ( hdc ) and efficiently performs the accurate few species
   classification required in food profiling . we overcome the second
   limitation by the use of an in memory hardware accelerator for demeter (
   named acc demeter ) based on memristor devices . acc demeter actualizes
   several domain specific optimizations and exploits the inherent
   characteristics of memristors to improve the overall performance and energy
   consumption of acc demeter . we compare demeter s accuracy with other
   industrial food profilers using detailed software modeling . we synthesize
   acc demeter s required hardware using umc s 65nm library by considering an
   accurate pcm model based on silicon based prototypes . our evaluations
   demonstrate that acc demeter achieves a ( 1 ) throughput improvement of 192
   and 724 and ( 2 ) memory reduction of 36 and 33 compared to kraken2 and
   metacache ( 2 state of the art profilers ) , respectively , on typical food
   related databases . demeter maintains an acceptable profiling accuracy (
   within 2 % of existing tools ) and incurs a very low area overhead
DE analog computing; emerging memories; food profiling; in memory processing
ID data structures; energy utilization; health risks; information management;
   interactive computer systems; memristors; monitoring; real time systems;
   analog computing; demeter; emerging memory; food profiling; in memory
   processing; memory-management; memristor; real time system; sequential
   analysis; state of the art; energy efficiency

---

UT 1561
AR Aguilar E, 2020, BIOINFORM - INT CONF BIOINFORM MODEL METHODS ALGORITHMS
   PROC; INT JT CONF BIOMED ENG SYST TECHNOL BIOSTEC, P9
TI Uncertainty modeling and deep learning applied to food image analysis
AU Aguilar E; Nagarajan B; Khatun R; Bolaños M; Radeva P
TC 7
SO BIOINFORM - INT CONF BIOINFORM MODEL METHODS ALGORITHMS PROC; INT JT CONF
   BIOMED ENG SYST TECHNOL BIOSTEC
PY 2020
AB recognizing food images arises as a difficult image recognition task due to
   the high intra class variance and low inter class variance of food
   categories . deep learning has been shown as a promising methodology to
   address such difficult problems as food image recognition that can be
   considered as a fine grained object recognition problem . we argue that , in
   order to continue improving performance in this task , it is necessary to
   better understand what the model learns instead of considering it as a black
   box . in this paper , we show how uncertainty analysis can help us gain a
   better understanding of the model in the context of the food recognition .
   furthermore , we take decisions to improve its performance based on this
   analysis and propose a new data augmentation approach considering sample
   level uncertainty . the results of our method considering the evaluation on
   a public food dataset are very encouraging
DE deep learning; food recognition; uncertainty modeling
ID bioinformatics; biomedical engineering; image recognition; learning systems;
   object recognition; uncertainty analysis; deep learning; data augmentation;
   fine grained; improving performance; inter class; intra class; object
   recognition problem; performance based; uncertainty modeling; deep learning;
   uncertainty analysis

---

UT 1562
AR Okada S, 2016, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9834 LNCS, P247, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-43506-0_21
TI A study on classification of food texture with recurrent neural network
AU Okada S; Nakamoto H; Kobayashi F; Kojima F
TC 8
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2016
AB this study constructs a food texture evaluation system using a food texture
   sensor having sensor elements of 2 types . characteristics of food are
   digitized by using the food texture sensor in imitation of the structure of
   the human tooth . classification of foods is carried out by the recurrent
   neural network . the recurrent neural network receives the time series
   outputs from the food texture sensor , and outputs classification signals .
   in the experiment , 3 kinds of food are classified by the recurrent neural
   network
DE backpropagation through time bptt; classification of food texture; food
   texture; recurrent neural network rnn
ID backpropagation; robotics; backpropagation through time; food texture; human
   teeths; sensor elements; recurrent neural networks

---

UT 1563
AR Tsakanikas P, 2020, SCI REP, V10, DOI 10.1038/s41598-020-68156-2
TI A machine learning workflow for raw food spectroscopic classification in a
   future industry
AU Tsakanikas P; Karnavas A; Panagou EZ; Nychas G-J
TC 71
SO SCI REP
PY 2020
AB over the years , technology has changed the way we produce and have access
   to our food through the development of applications , robotics , data
   analysis , and processing techniques . the implementation of these
   approaches by the food industry ensure quality and affordability , reducing
   at the same time the costs of keeping the food fresh and increase
   productivity . a system , as the one presented herein , for raw food
   categorization is needed in future food industries to automate food
   classification according to type , the process of algorithm approaches that
   will be applied to every different food origin and also for serving disabled
   people . the purpose of this work was to develop a machine learning workflow
   based on supervised pls regression and svm classification , toward automated
   raw food categorization from ftir . the system exhibited high efficiency in
   multi class classification of 7 different types of raw food . the selected
   food samples , were diverse in terms of storage conditions ( temperature ,
   storage time and packaging ) , while the variability within each food was
   also taken into account by several different batches . leading in a
   classifier able to embed this variation toward increased robustness and
   efficiency , ready for real life applications targeting to the digital
   transformation of the food industry
ID digital technology; food industry; machine learning; raw foods; spectrum
   analysis; workflow; article; classifier; disabled person; food industry;
   human; multi-class classification; partial least squares regression; raw
   food; workflow; classification; food industry; machine learning; procedures;
   raw food; spectroscopy; workflow

---

UT 1564
AR Rohini B, 2021, INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS, P772, DOI
   10.1109/ICACCS51430.2021.9441800
TI A Framework to Identify Allergen and Nutrient Content in Fruits and Packaged
   Food using Deep Learning and OCR
AU Rohini B; Pavuluri DM; Naresh Kumar LS; Soorya V; Aravinth J
TC 11
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS
PY 2021
AB allergic reactions to food can depend on a wide range of factors and hence ,
   the proportionate reactions of the same can vary . with such a wide range of
   unpredictability , classifying allergens , and the rate at which it would
   effect is what the scientists have been working on for years . to bring
   awareness of the food we consume and the potential threats it can cause us ,
   in this paper we propose a 2-tab deep learning based application to provide
   the nutrient and allergen content in fruits and vegetables and , to display
   allergen information in packaged food using ocr . through a novel deep
   learning framework , the picture of the fruit or vegetable captured via an
   application is classified and recognized and the nutritional facts and
   allergen information is presented . the fine tuned deep learning model which
   is deployed in cloud , obtained a good accuracy of 97.37 percentage on our
   dataset . for packaged food , the picture of the ingredient index is
   captured via the application and the allergen information is presented after
   the text is recognized through optical character recognition which would be
   carried out in a remote server
DE allergens; cloud deployment; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   flask; heroku; keras; machine learning; optical character recognition;
   pytesseract; remote deployment; vgg16
ID allergens; fruits; nutrients; optical character recognition; vegetables;
   allergic reactions; fruits and vegetables; learning frameworks; learning
   models; nutrient contents; packaged food; potential threats; remote servers;
   deep learning

---

UT 1565
AR Mogol BA, 2014, J SCI FOOD AGRIC, V94, P1259, DOI 10.1002/jsfa.6500
TI Computer vision-based analysis of foods: A non-destructive colour
   measurement tool to monitor quality and safety
AU Mogol BA; Gökmen V
TC 62
SO J SCI FOOD AGRIC
PY 2014
AB computer vision based image analysis has been widely used in food industry
   to monitor food quality . it allows low cost and non contact measurements of
   color to be performed . in this paper , two computer vision based image
   analysis approaches are discussed to extract mean color or featured color
   information from the digital images of foods . these types of information
   may be of particular importance as color indicates certain chemical changes
   or physical properties in foods . as exemplified here , the mean cie a *
   value or browning ratio determined by means of computer vision based image
   analysis algorithms can be correlated with acrylamide content of potato
   chips or cookies . or , porosity index as an important physical property of
   breadcrumb can be calculated easily . in this respect , computer vision
   based image analysis provides a useful tool for automatic inspection of food
   products in a manufacturing line , and it can be actively involved in the
   decision making process where rapid quality / safety evaluation is needed .
   2013 society of chemical industry .
DE color measurement; computer vision based image analysis; food quality and
   safety; mean and featured information; segmentation
ID acrylamide; algorithms; carcinogens; fast foods; food contamination; food
   inspection; food quality; food processing industry; image interpretation
   computer-assisted; image processing computer-assisted; maillard reaction;
   porosity; quality control; acrylamide; carcinogen; algorithm; analysis;
   computer-assisted diagnosis; devices; economics; fast food; food
   contamination; food control; food industry; food quality; glycation; image
   processing; porosity; procedures; quality control; trends

---

UT 1566
AR Ng YS, 2019, MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED
   MM, P33, DOI 10.1145/3347448.3357168
TI Convolutional neural networks for food image recognition: An experimental
   study
AU Ng YS; Xue W; Wang W; Qi P
TC 10
SO MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2019
AB the global rising trend of consumer health awareness has increasingly drawn
   attention toward the development of nutrition tracking applications . a key
   component to enable large scale , low cost and personalized nutrition
   analysis is a food image recognition engine based on convolutional neural
   network ( cnn ) . while there is a strong demand for many variants of such
   applications to serve different localized needs around the world , it
   remains an ongoing challenge to piece together a complete solution involving
   ( i ) dataset preparation ( 2 ) choice of cnn architecture ( 3 ) cnn
   optimization strategies in the context of food classification . in this work
   , we address this problem by conducting a series of experimental study to
   aid engineers in quickly preparing datasets , deploying and optimizing cnn
   based solutions for food image recognition tasks . based on our results , we
   recommend that ( i ) larger networks such as xception shall be used . ( ii )
   minimum of 300 images per category need to be available to kick start
   training for optimal performance . ( iii ) image augmentation techniques
   that do not alter shapes are more beneficial . various augmentation
   techniques can also be combined for better results . ( iv ) dataset
   balancing strategy might not be required to address class imbalance in food
   datasets below an imbalance ratio of 7 . ( v ) higher native image
   resolution during training is beneficial to classifier performance ,
   especially for networks requiring larger input size
DE class imbalance; convolutional neural networks; food dataset; image
   augmentation; image recognition
ID balancing; convolution; image recognition; image resolution; neural
   networks; nutrition; augmentation techniques; class imbalance; classifier
   performance; convolutional neural network; image augmentation; optimal
   performance; optimization strategy; tracking application; classification (
   of information )

---

UT 1567
AR van den Bulk LM, 2022, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V5, P84, DOI
   10.1016/j.crfs.2021.12.010
TI Automatic classification of literature in systematic reviews on food safety
   using machine learning
AU van den Bulk LM; Bouzembrak Y; Gavai A; Liu N/2; van den Heuvel LJ; Marvin
   HJP
TC 33
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2022
AB systematic reviews are used to collect relevant literature to answer a
   research question in a way that is clear , thorough , unbiased and
   reproducible . they are implemented as a standard method in the domain of
   food safety to obtain a literature overview on the state of the art research
   related to food safety topics of interest . a disadvantage to systematic
   reviews , however , is that this process is time consuming and requires
   expert domain knowledge . the work reported here aims to reduce the time
   needed by an expert to screen all possible relevant articles by applying
   machine learning techniques to classify the articles automatically as either
   relevant or not relevant . eight different machine learning algorithms and
   ensembles of all combinations of these algorithms were tested on two
   different systematic reviews on food safety ( i . e . chemical hazards in
   cereals and leafy greens ) . the results showed that the best performance
   was obtained by an ensemble of naive bayes and a support vector machine ,
   resulting in an average decrease of 32.8 % in the amount of articles the
   expert has to read and an average decrease in irrelevant articles of 57.8 %
   while keeping 95 % of the relevant articles . it was concluded that
   automatic classification of the literature in a systematic literature review
   can support experts in their task and save valuable time without
   compromising the quality of the review
DE artificial intelligence; classification models; document screening; food
   safety hazards; literature reviews; text mining
ID article; artificial intelligence; bayesian learning; cereal; food safety;
   human; leafy vegetable; mining; support vector machine; systematic review

---

UT 1568
AR Amado TM, 2019, IEEE INT CONF HUMANOID NANOTECHNOL TECHNOL COMMUN CONTROL
   ENV MANAG HNICEM, DOI 10.1109/HNICEM48295.2019.9072907
TI Development of Predictive Models using Machine Learning Algorithms for Food
   Adulterants Bacteria Detection
AU Amado TM; Bunuan MR; Chicote RF; Espenida SMC; Masangcay HL; Ventura CH;
   Tolentino LKS; Padilla MVC; Madrigal GAM; Enriquez LAC
TC 16
SO IEEE INT CONF HUMANOID NANOTECHNOL TECHNOL COMMUN CONTROL ENV MANAG HNICEM
PY 2019
AB one of the necessities of human to survive is food and meat is one of mainly
   consumed food by humans . thus , a level of quality of food is a must to be
   safely consumed . there have been some cases of adulteration of meats ,
   which can cause harm to consumers . adulteration can lead to bacteria
   contamination which are difficult to determine the presence of bacteria
   without an instrument or food laboratory tests . nowadays , the idea of
   applying machine learning in the field of food microbiology is becoming a
   trend . and one of these applications is on detection and classification of
   bacteria in food products . hence , this study aims to apply machine
   learning algorithms to construct predictive models to detect the presence of
   bacteria such as escherichia coli and staphylococcus aureus in raw meat and
   determine which model is best through accuracy and cross validation . in
   this study , five machine learning algorithms are used which are k nearest
   neighbors ( knn ) , support vector machine ( svm ) , random forest ( rf ) ,
   naive bayes classifier ( nb ) , and artificial neural network ( ann ) . all
   models are implemented effectively each having an accuracy of 94.97 % ,
   91.84 % , 97.57 % , 61.46 % , and 66.84 % respectively . a web application
   is created using the shiny package in r to attain a standalone application
   used to show the detected bacteria
DE adulteration; artificial neural networks; escherichia coli; k-nearest
   neighbors; naive bayes; random forest; staphylococcus aureus; support vector
   machine
ID chemical contamination; decision trees; environmental management;
   escherichia coli; food microbiology; learning systems; meats;
   nanotechnology; nearest neighbor search; neural networks; staphylococcus
   aureus; support vector machines; bacteria contamination; bacteria detection;
   bayes classifier; cross validation; k-nearest neighbor ( knn ); laboratory
   test; predictive models; standalone applications; learning algorithms

---

UT 1569
AR Razzaq A, 2021, INT J FOOD PROP, V24, P726, DOI
   10.1080/10942912.2021.1919703
TI An Automatic Determining Food Security Status: Machine Learning based
   Analysis of Household Survey Data
AU Razzaq A; Ahmed UI; Hashim S; Hussain A; Qadri S; Ullah S; Nawaz Shah A;
   Imran A; Asghar A
TC 15
SO INT J FOOD PROP
PY 2021
AB household food security is a major issue in developing countries like
   pakistan . despite significant breakthroughs in grain production within the
   country , the problem of food availability and utilization persists . diet
   is one of the most potent determinants of nutritional condition . the
   dietary intake method has been utilized to determine the food security
   status of households , which depends on various factors . there are no
   automatic and user friendly methods available to decide food security status
   , which is generally determined by manually calculating calorie intakes .
   due to its high performance and precision , machine learning holds major
   significance . in this paper , the status of food security has been examined
   by applying machine learning algorithms , namely , support vector machine ,
   naive bayes , k nearest neighbors , random forest , logistic regression ,
   and neural network , on survey data of households for best predicting the
   status . a food analysis ( fa ) app has been developed to automatically
   predict the fao status of a household s food security by implementing the
   random forest model that found higher precision among algorithms .
   additionally , the proposed mobile app will also be helpful for collecting
   the households data . furthermore , the objective of the study was to
   enhance food security awareness among individuals . 2021 , published with
   license by taylor and francis group , llc . 2021 abdul razzaq , umar ijaz
   ahmed , sarfraz hashim , aamir hussain , salman qadri , sami ullah , ali
   nawaz shah , ali imran and attika asghar .
DE food security; householders; machine learning; mobile app; random forest;
   survey
ID decision trees; developing countries; e-learning; food supply; logistic
   regression; nearest neighbor search; nutrition; random forests; support
   vector machines; support vector regression; surveys; dietary intakes; food
   availability; grain production; household surveys; k-nearest neighbors;
   nutritional conditions; random forest modeling; user friendly methods;
   learning systems

---

UT 1570
AR Yoon H/2, 2022, WORK HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGE SIGNAL PROCES EVOL REMOTE SENS,
   V2022-September, DOI 10.1109/WHISPERS56178.2022.9955049
TI Hyperspectral Image Visualization Through Neural Network for the Food
   Industry
AU Yoon H/2; Lee J
TC 1
SO WORK HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGE SIGNAL PROCES EVOL REMOTE SENS
PY 2022
AB hyperspectral images ( hsi ) visualization is important for data annotation
   , which is used for finding and analyzing foreign objects in food based on
   machine learning or deep learning techniques . however , hsi visualization
   is challenging due to the numerous bands compared to rgb images . recently
   to address the problem , a lot of methods have been proposed such as color
   matching function . the color matching function is a representative method
   based on the human visual system and returns a static value . however , the
   property sometimes makes results indistinguishable due to the failure to
   catch the spectrum features . in this paper , we propose a mapping method
   from hsi to rgb through the neural network that learns the relationships
   between spectrum and rgb values directly . our proposed method is evaluated
   on the dried radish and filefish data obtained from the near infrared
   hyperspectral sensor
DE food safety; hyperspectral image; multispectral image; neural network;
   visualization
ID accident prevention; data visualization; deep learning; food safety;
   hyperspectral imaging; infrared devices; learning systems; spectroscopy;
   spectrum analysis; color matching functions; data annotation; food
   industries; food safety; foreign object; hyperspectral; hyperspectral image;
   image visualization; multispectral images; neural networks; visualization

---

UT 1571
AR Maurya R, 2021, MACH VIS APPL, V32, DOI 10.1007/s00138-021-01204-7
TI Computer-aided automatic detection of acrylamide in deep-fried carbohydrate-
   rich food items using deep learning
AU Maurya R; Singh S/3; Pathak VK; Dutta MK
TC 14
SO MACH VIS APPL
PY 2021
AB deep fried carbohydrate rich foods items such as potato chips and french
   fries are one of the most popular snack foods consumed across the globe . in
   the production of these carbohydrate rich foods items , a compound known as
   acrylamide is formed which is carcinogen and mutagen as well . the
   conventional chemical based methods for detection of the presence of
   acrylamide in the deep fried carbohydrate rich food items are a time
   consuming , destructive process that requires skilled manpower . the present
   work proposes a deep learning based computer vision framework for automatic
   detection of the presence of acrylamide in potato chip samples with and
   without transfer learning . the performance of proposed six layer cnn (
   without transfer learning ) has been compared with the performance of the
   other transfer learned models , for the present classification task using
   fivefold cross validation . experimental results show that the proposed six
   layer cnn classifies the acrylamide positive and negative samples with an
   average f1 score of 0.9251 , whereas with the transfer learning based
   approach , best average f1 score of 0.9644 was achieved . in conclusion ,
   the proposed methodology in the current work is well suited for the
   acrylamide detection problem and the proposed work also analyzes the
   effectiveness of the transfer learning based approach when compared with the
   approach without utilizing the concept of transfer learning . 2021 , the
   author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer verlag gmbh germany ,
   part of springer nature .
DE acrylamide; convolution neural network; potato chips; transfer learning;
   u-net
ID amides; carbohydrates; chemical contamination; chemical detection; computer
   aided instruction; learning systems; transfer learning; automatic detection;
   classification tasks; cross validation; destructive process; detection
   problems; learning-based approach; skilled manpower; vision frameworks; deep
   learning

---

UT 1572
AR Valous NA, 2012, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND, P97, DOI
   10.1533/9780857095770.1.97
TI Image processing techniques for computer vision in the food and beverage
   industries
AU Valous NA; Sun D-W/1
TC 18
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND
PY 2012
AB the foremost underlying drivers for using image processing technologies are
   automation and improved rapid operations . image analysis involves taking
   measurements of objects within an image , preferably automatically , and
   assigning them to groups or classes . the objective is to present
   conventional and more advanced digital image processing techniques that
   predominantly involve the image analysis class of operations : segmentation
   , feature selection and extraction , and classification . these approaches
   will be reviewed from the aspect of illustrating their role and impact in
   the food and beverage industry . 2012 woodhead publishing limited all rights
   reserved .
DE classification; computer vision; feature extraction; feature selection;
   image processing; segmentation

---

UT 1573
AR Di Rosa AR, 2017, J FOOD ENG, V210, P62, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2017.04.024
TI Fusion of electronic nose, electronic tongue and computer vision for animal
   source food authentication and quality assessment – A review
AU Di Rosa AR; Leone F; Cheli F; Chiofalo V
TC 332
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2017
AB electronic nose , electronic tongue and computer vision systems , designed
   to artificially perceive flavor and appearance , have been increasingly used
   in the food industry as rapid and reliable tools for quality assessment .
   the use of multivariate analysis methods , together with electronic senses ,
   has shown to be very powerful . however , due to the high complexity of food
   , the employment of just single sensor data is often insufficient . in
   recent years , much research has been performed to develop several data
   fusion strategies , combining the outputs of multiple instrumental sources ,
   for improving the quality assessment and authentication of food . the aim of
   this work is to review the recent achievements in the field of artificial
   sensors application , in the evaluation of animal source food products
DE animal source food; chemometrics; computer vision systems; electronic nose;
   electronic tongue; multi-sensor data fusion
ID animals; authentication; computer vision; data fusion; electronic nose; food
   products; multivariant analysis; sensor data fusion; animal source foods;
   chemometrics; computer vision system; data fusion strategy; high complexity;
   multi-sensor data fusion; multivariate analysis methods; quality assessment;
   electronic tongues

---

UT 1574
AR Kuno T, 2009, PROC INT SYMP ARTIF LIFE ROB AROB, P630
TI Development of physiological activity estimation method of foods using
   amplitude extended neural networks
AU Kuno T; Kamiguchi M; Yamamori K; Yoshihara I; Nagahama K
TC 1
SO PROC INT SYMP ARTIF LIFE ROB AROB
PY 2009
AB we developed a system to estimate physiological activities of foods from
   protein expression levels using artificial neural networks ( anns ) . since
   protein expression levels and physiological activities are measured in
   multiple times for a constituent , we employ a simple regression analysis to
   find appropriate correspondence between physiological activities and protein
   expression levels . the range of physiological activities are from 0 to z (
   z > 1 ) , they can not directly use training signals of anns because the
   output of a neuron is limited from zero to one . to tackle this problem , we
   introduce two parameters k and l to the activation function of our system
   like as ( f ( x ) = k/1+e 1x ) . our system is based on three layer ann and
   back propagation algorithm is employed as training algorithm . experimental
   results showed that our system can estimate more accurate than that of anns
   with normalized training samples for antioxidant stress activity . isarob
   2009 .
DE artificial neural networks; functional foods; physiological activity;
   protein expression level
ID backpropagation algorithms; physiology; proteins; regression analysis;
   robotics; activation functions; artificial neural network; artificial neural
   networks; estimation methods; extended neural networks; functional foods;
   physiological activity; protein expression level; protein expression levels;
   simple regression analysis; three-layer; training algorithms; training
   sample; training signal; two parameter; neural networks

---

UT 1575
AR Gunawan B, 2017, TELKOMNIKA TELECOMUN COMPT ELECTR CONTROL, V15, P1641, DOI
   10.12928/TELKOMNIKA.v15i4.6164
TI The use of polymer based gas sensor for detecting formalin in food using
   artificial neural network
AU Gunawan B; Sudarmaji A
TC 1
SO TELKOMNIKA TELECOMUN COMPT ELECTR CONTROL
PY 2017
AB the usage of formalin as preservative substance in food is dangerous and
   make much threat to public society . yet , it is difficult to identify the
   presence of formalin in food sensory . it commonly requires laboratory based
   testing to detect the formalin . this work describes a detector system of
   formalin presence in food which employs a series of polymer based gas sensor
   and uses a neural network detection method . the sensors are the polymer
   carbon composite which made of the polymer mixed with active carbon . there
   are four types of polymer used , i . e . polyethylene glycol ( peg ) 6000 ,
   peg200 , peg20m , and peg1450 . the polymer carbon composite provided a
   unique characteristic when it is exposed to vapor of food with or without
   formalin . the resistance of each polymer is different for each detected
   vapor . the combination of those sensors gives a pattern of voltage output
   on the sensors when they are exposed certain gas so that every gas has its
   unique output pattern . the method of detection uses an algorithm of back
   propagation of the neural network . that voltage pattern of sensors serves
   as input to an artificial intelligence program . the result shows that the
   system has the accuracy of 75 % in detecting formalin in food .
DE artificial neural network; formalin detection; polymer sensor

---

UT 1576
AR Feng L, 2021, NUTR, V8, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2021.680357
TI Application of Visible/Infrared Spectroscopy and Hyperspectral Imaging With
   Machine Learning Techniques for Identifying Food Varieties and Geographical
   Origins
AU Feng L; Wu B; Zhu S; He Y; Zhang C/3
TC 107
SO NUTR
PY 2021
AB food quality and safety are strongly related to human health . food quality
   varies with variety and geographical origin , and food fraud is becoming a
   threat to domestic and global markets . visible / infrared spectroscopy and
   hyperspectral imaging techniques , as rapid and non destructive analytical
   methods , have been widely utilized to trace food varieties and geographical
   origins . in this review , we outline recent research progress on
   identifying food varieties and geographical origins using visible / infrared
   spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging with the help of machine learning
   techniques . the applications of visible , near infrared , and mid infrared
   spectroscopy as well as hyperspectral imaging techniques on crop food ,
   beverage , fruits , nuts , meat , oil , and some other kinds of food are
   reviewed . furthermore , existing challenges and prospects are discussed .
   in general , the existing machine learning techniques contribute to
   satisfactory classification results . follow up researches of food varieties
   and geographical origins traceability and development of real time detection
   equipment are still in demand
DE geographical origin; hyperspectral imaging; machine learning; variety;
   visible/infrared spectroscopy

---

UT 1577
AR Dolci R, 2017, PROC INT COMPUT SOFTW APPL CONF, V2, P384, DOI
   10.1109/COMPSAC.2017.157
TI IoT Solutions for Precision Farming and Food Manufacturing: Artificial
   Intelligence Applications in Digital Food
AU Dolci R
TC 68
SO PROC INT COMPUT SOFTW APPL CONF
PY 2017
AB in many respects , farming and food processing have lagged other industries
   when it comes to adoption of innovative technology . while bioengineering
   has brought about seeds with much higher yield and less need for water and
   nutrients , it is only now with iot that farmers can work on the intensive
   use of natural resources to increase the sustainability of their operations
   . in the last ten years , high end machinery has evolved primarily to the
   benefit of larger corporations , with the introduction of satellite driven
   machines , sensors and all components of precision farming . the most recent
   iot advances bring about a level of simplification and cost reduction that
   enable all farmers to benefit and a true adoption of prescription
   agriculture . in this conference presentation , we will examine a practical
   case of a malthouse , where careful modeling of how co2 , temperature ,
   humidity and ph vary in the three steps of the malting process , enabled an
   artificial intelligence system to prescribe different setting and schedules
   . the end result is malt with higher content of starch and proteins , which
   in turn means higher alcohol in the downstream process . a second example on
   the cultivation of medical marijuana , where similarly but in a more complex
   fashion ( 138 variables ) the artificial intelligence supported the tuning
   of many settings and schedules , is presented only in the conference
DE iot; precision farming; prescriptive farming
ID agriculture; application programs; artificial intelligence; computer
   software; cost reduction; cultivation; food processing; internet of things;
   machinery; artificial intelligence systems; down-stream process; food
   manufacturing; higher alcohols; higher yield; innovative technology;
   precision farming; prescriptive farming; seed

---

UT 1578
AR Lei Z, 2020, NEUROCOMPUTING, V415, P382, DOI 10.1016/j.neucom.2020.08.071
TI Composing recipes based on nutrients in food in a machine learning context
AU Lei Z; Ul Haq A; Dorraki M; Zhang D/1; Abbott D
TC 10
SO NEUROCOMPUTING
PY 2020
AB in the past few decades , numerous studies have demonstrated the
   effectiveness of diet modification in preventing and controlling different
   chronic diseases , bringing increased attention to the creation of
   nutritional recipes . currently , the development of recipes is primarily
   based on personal experience rather than nutritional specifications . to
   this end , this paper first uses kernel canonical correlation analysis to
   demonstrate the relationship between nutrients in food and recipes . based
   on this relationship , a new recipe expression method is put forward , which
   objectively reflects differing importance of an ingredient in differing
   recipes . then , recipes are composed using an auto encoder in deep learning
   , and a fusion model of two auto encoders is proposed for better concocting
   recipes . this paper uses two machine learning methods , namely , non
   negative matrix factorization and two step regularized least squares , to
   form recipes . to tackle overfitting and instability in non negative matrix
   factorization during the training of recipe model , we introduce the
   frobenius norm to redefine the objective function and add non smooth sparse
   matrices . similar food has similar taste , but their nutrients might differ
   . this paper also considers nutrients as a kernel matrix of the two step
   regularized least squares , which can effectively avoid the occurrence of
   different food combinations with similar taste . experimental results show
   that developing recipes based on nutrients in food is feasible and effective
   in the context of machine learning
DE data mining; deep learning; nutrition; recipe creation
ID deep learning; factorization; least squares approximations; matrix algebra;
   nutrients; nutrition; signal encoding; turing machines; chronic disease;
   kernel canonical correlation analysis; kernel matrices; non-negative matrix
   factorization; objective functions; personal experience; regularized least
   squares; sparse matrices; algorithm; article; calculation; deep learning;
   food; food analysis; food composition; machine learning; mathematical
   computing; non-negative matrix factorization; nutrient; priority journal;
   taste; learning systems

---

UT 1579
AR Lind R, 2012, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND, P133, DOI
   10.1533/9780857095770.2.133
TI Computer vision in food processing: An overview
AU Lind R; Murhed A
TC 6
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND
PY 2012
AB computer vision is a technology that allows the automation of visual
   inspection and measurement tasks using digital cameras and image analysis
   techniques . this chapter provides an introduction to various aspects of the
   application of computer vision technology in the food industry . the
   motivation for using computer vision techniques and the advantages that they
   offer are discussed , along with an overview of the various types of
   technology available and their uses in this field . 2012 woodhead publishing
   limited all rights reserved .
DE computer vision; image processing; machine vision; quality inspection

---

UT 1580
AR Chen Y/3, 2021, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12859 LNCS, P253, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-85899-5_19
TI Multimodal Encoders for Food-Oriented Cross-Modal Retrieval
AU Chen Y/3; Zhou D; Li L/3; Han J-M
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2021
AB the task of retrieving across different modalities plays a critical role in
   food oriented applications . modality alignment remains a challenging
   component in the whole process , in which a common embedding feature space
   between two modalities can be learned for effective comparison and retrieval
   . recent studies mainly utilize adversarial loss or reconstruction loss to
   align different modalities . however , insufficient features may be
   extracted from different modalities , resulting in low quality of alignments
   . unlike these methods , this paper proposes a method combining multimodal
   encoders with adversarial learning to learn improved and efficient cross
   modal embeddings for retrieval purposes . the core of our proposed approach
   is the directional pairwise cross modal attention that latently adapts
   representations from one modality to another . although the model is not
   particularly complex , experimental results on the benchmark recipe1m
   dataset show that our proposed method is superior to current state of the
   art methods
DE cross-modal retrieval; food-oriented computing; modality alignment; multi-
   modal encoders
ID alignment; embeddings; information management; adversarial learning; cross-
   modal; feature space; low qualities; multi-modal; state of the art methods;
   whole process; signal encoding

---

UT 1581
AR Kudashkina K, 2022, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V123, P376, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2022.03.021
TI Artificial Intelligence technology in food safety: A behavioral approach
AU Kudashkina K; Corradini MG/1; Thirunathan P; Yada RY; Fraser EDG
TC 74
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB background : food safety is paramount to our health and existence . the
   complexity and sophistication of today s food systems require maintaining
   the highest food safety standards using cutting edge technologies to protect
   consumers from foodborne illness , while reducing the risk of food companies
   from losing millions of dollars in recall costs and possible reputational
   damage . food safety management systems ( fsmss ) provide an integrated
   strategy that includes procedures , training , and monitoring to prevent
   food safety hazards and minimize risks and recalls . to increase the
   effectiveness and efficiency of fsmss , it is necessary to further enhance
   the use of indicators obtained only after the problem has occurred lagging
   indicators with preemptive tools . artificial intelligence ( ai ) enables a
   proactive data driven approach by using the data to develop indicators that
   identify problems before they emerge leading indicators . the purpose of
   this commentary is to demonstrate how ai can use behavioral data to develop
   leading indicators for food safety . scope and approach : to accomplish the
   above goal , this commentary is organized into the following sections : [ 1
   ] an argument for the need to develop leading indicators for food safety . [
   2 ] an direction for how ai can help food safety experts develop leading
   indicators . [ 3 ] a development of the concept that behavioral data , such
   as workplace culture analysis , is a crucial resource for identifying
   leading indicators that anticipate food safety problems , and [ 4 ]
   recommendations and potential pathways forward on how behavioral data may be
   analyzed by ai algorithms to anticipate food safety problems . key findings
   and conclusions : recommendations and examples on how behavioral data can be
   combined with state of the art ai developments to formulate behavioral
   approaches to solve food safety issues
DE artificial intelligence; food safety; foodborne illness; predictive models;
   predictive technology

---

UT 1582
AR Arumuga Maria Devi T, 2022, INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST, V30,
   P337, DOI 10.1142/S0218488522400104
TI Performance Metrics on Hyperspectral Images in Fuzzy Contextual
   Convolutional Neural Network for Food Quality Analyzer
AU Arumuga Maria Devi T; Darwin P
TC 1
SO INT J UNCERTAIN FUZZINESS KNOWL BASED SYST
PY 2022
AB the quality of food and the safety of consumer is one of the major essential
   things in our day to day life . to ensure the quality of foods through their
   various attributes , different types of methods have been introduced . in
   this proposed method , three underlying blocks namely hyperspectral food
   image context extractor ( hfice ) , hyperspectral context fuzzy classifier (
   hcfc ) and convolutional neural network ( cnn ) for food quality analyzer (
   cfqa ) . hyperspectral food image context extractor module is used as the
   preprocess to get food attributes such as texture , color , size , shape and
   molecular particulars . hyperspectral context fuzzy classifier module
   identifies a particular part of the food ( zone entity ) is whether
   carbohydrate , fat , protein , water or unusable core . cnn for food quality
   analyzer module uses a tuned convolutional layer , heuristic activation
   operation , parallel element merge layer and a regular fully connected layer
   . indian pines , salinas and pavia are the benchmark dataset to evaluate
   hyperspectral image based machine learning procedures . these datasets are
   used along with a dedicated chicken meat hyper spectral imaging dataset is
   used in the training and testing process . results are obtained that about
   7.86 % of average values in various essential evaluation metrics such as
   performance metrics such as accuracy , precision , sensitivity and
   specificity have improved when compared to existing state of the art results
DE food auality analyzer; fuzzy classifier; hyperspectral image
ID convolution; fuzzy sets; image classification; spectroscopy; statistical
   tests; textures; benchmark datasets; convolutional neural network; food
   auality analyzer; food image; food quality; fuzzy classifiers;
   hyperspectral; hyperspectral image; performance metrices; preprocess; image
   analysis

---

UT 1583
AR Ahmad I, 2022, ADV FOOD RHEOL APPL DEV FOOD RHEOL ED, P201, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-823983-4.00004-2
TI Application of artificial intelligence and machine learning to food rheology
AU Ahmad I; Benjamin T-A
TC 9
SO ADV FOOD RHEOL APPL DEV FOOD RHEOL ED
PY 2022
AB this chapter reviews alternative modeling approaches to conventional
   modeling using evolutionary algorithms and machine learning ( ml )
   principles . with the increasing computational power , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) is being used to solve a multitude of engineering
   problems . ai is a collective term used to describe ml and deep learning (
   dl ) techniques . the difference between ml and dl needs to be understood as
   both terms are used interchangeably and are sometimes confusing . both
   approaches refer to ai and a subset of ai . while both approaches are the
   hallmark of the new shift in scientific discovery using data driven
   approaches . modeling of the flow behavior of liquids , semisolid and
   textural behavior under stress have been covered . ml models are able to
   efficiently characterize these kinds of rheological properties , along with
   withstanding temperature changes and flow instability . with ml and a dl
   approach , rheological models are able to tackle foods that exhibit complex
   visco elastic properties
DE artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; classification; deep
   learning; hydrocolloid; machine learning; rheology; supervised learning;
   support vector machines; texture

---

UT 1584
AR Sarker P, 2022, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V514 LNNS, P360, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-12413-6_28
TI A Deep Neural Networks-Based Food Recognition Approach for Hypertension
   Triggering Food
AU Sarker P; Islam SH; Akter K; Rukhsara L; Hridoy RH
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2022
AB in today s world , high blood pressure has become a major issue for many
   people . the prevalence of this hypertension is increasing as a result of
   the consumption of certain risky foods . the purpose of our research is to
   classify the images of high risk foods for hypertension patients to improve
   their quality of life by removing these hazardous foods from their daily
   eating . a dataset of 40995 food images from 15 distinct classes is used to
   generalize deep learning models using the transfer learning technique to
   fine tune the used pre trained models . in this case , mobilenetv2 achieved
   an accuracy of 95.84 % across 2094 test images . whereas xception and vgg19
   achieved accuracy rates of 81.31 % and 89.97 % , respectively . in
   comparison to other algorithms , mobilenetv2 has produced better results in
   less time and less misclassification . the results of the experiments
   illustrate that the proposed structure is capable of correctly classifying
   risky food images
DE deep neural networks; food classification; hypertension; mobilenetv2;
   transfer learning; vgg19; xception

---

UT 1585
AR Lim CH, 2021, IEEE INT CONF SYST ENG TECHNOL ICSET - PROC, P218, DOI
   10.1109/ICSET53708.2021.9612442
TI Explainable Artificial Intelligence in Oriental Food Recognition using
   Convolutional Neural Network
AU Lim CH; Goh KM; Lim LL
TC 6
SO IEEE INT CONF SYST ENG TECHNOL ICSET - PROC
PY 2021
AB food recognition technology remains a challenging task to the computer
   vision community due to the diverse nature of food . oriental food , with
   similar features such as color and texture , makes the recognition process
   less effective and challenging with a convolutional neural network ( cnn ) .
   more importantly , there are no literature reports on the use of local
   interpretable model agnostic explanations ( lime ) to increase the
   transparency of oriental food recognition . hence , this paper investigates
   oriental food recognition using two different cnn models and implements lime
   to interpret the model . the testing accuracy obtained by the proposed cnn
   models for oriental food recognition with optimum hyper parameter setting is
   about 85.7 % coupled with the utilization of the lime model to increase the
   transparency of the deep learning models
DE convolutional neural network; inception net; lime; oriental food; vgg
ID convolution; deep learning; lime; textures; transparency; color and
   textures; convolutional neural network; inception net; local interpretable
   model-agnostic explanation; neural network model; oriental food; recognition
   process; testing accuracy; vgg; vision communities; convolutional neural
   networks

---

UT 1586
AR Spanaki K, 2022, PROD PLANN CONTROL, V33, P1498, DOI
   10.1080/09537287.2021.1882688
TI Artificial intelligence and food security: swarm intelligence of AgriTech
   drones for smart AgriFood operations
AU Spanaki K; Karafili E; Sivarajah U; Despoudi S; Irani Z
TC 122
SO PROD PLANN CONTROL
PY 2022
AB the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) present the emerging need to
   explore new ways of agrifood production and food security as ultimate
   targets for feeding future generations . the study adopts a design science
   methodology and proposes artificial intelligence ( ai ) techniques as a
   solution to food security problems . specifically , the proposed artifact
   presents the collective use of agricultural technology ( agritech ) drones
   inspired by the biomimetic ways of bird swarms . the design ( artifact )
   appears here as a solution for supporting farming operations in inaccessible
   land , so as unmanned aerial devices contribute and improve the productivity
   of farming areas with limited capacity . the proposed design is developed
   through a scenario of drone swarms applying ai techniques to address food
   security issues . the study concludes by presenting a research agenda and
   the sectoral challenges triggered by the applications of ai in agriculture
DE agri-food sector; artificial intelligence ( ai ); food security; sustainable
   development goals ( sdgs ); swarm intelligence ( si )
ID agricultural technology; antennas; biomimetics; drones; food supply;
   planning; swarm intelligence; agricultural technologies; agri-food; agri-
   food sectors; artificial intelligence; artificial intelligence techniques;
   design science methodologies; food security; future generations; sustainable
   development goal; swarm intelligence; sustainable development

---

UT 1587
AR Mazzei A, 2015, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9281, P342, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-23222-5_42
TI Mobile computing and artificial intelligence for diet management
AU Mazzei A; Anselma L; De Michieli F; Bolioli A; Casu M; Gerbrandy J; Lunardi
   I
TC 12
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2015
AB this paper proposes a software architecture for automatic diet management
   and recipes analysis . we devise a virtual dietitian that is able : ( 1 ) to
   recover the nutritional information directly from a specific recipe , ( 2 )
   to reason over recipes and diets with flexibility , i . e . by allowing some
   forms of diet disobedience , and ( 3 ) to persuade the user to minimize
   these acts of disobedience
ID artificial intelligence; image processing; nutrition; nutritional
   information; image analysis

---

UT 1588
AR Daley WDR, 2012, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND, P206, DOI
   10.1533/9780857095770.2.206
TI Automated cutting in the food industry using computer vision
AU Daley WDR; Arif O
TC 2
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND
PY 2012
AB the processing of natural products has posed a significant problem to
   researchers and developers involved in the development of automation . the
   challenges have come from areas such as sensing , grasping and manipulation
   , as well as product specific areas such as cutting and handling of meat
   products . meat products are naturally variable and fixed automation is at
   its limit as far as its ability to accommodate these products . intelligent
   automation systems ( such as robots ) are also challenged , mostly because
   of a lack of knowledge of the physical characteristic of the individual
   products . machine vision has helped to address some of these shortcomings
   but underperforms in many situations . developments in sensors , software
   and processing power are now offering capabilities that will help to make
   more of these problems tractable . in this chapter we will describe some of
   the developments that are underway in terms of computer vision for meat
   product applications , the problems they are addressing and potential future
   trends . 2012 woodhead publishing limited all rights reserved .
DE algorithms; computer vision; infrared ( ir ) sensors; machine learning;
   machine vision; visible sensors; x-ray

---

UT 1589
AR Bi K, 2020, PROCESS, V8, DOI 10.3390/pr8010023
TI GC-MS fingerprints profiling using machine learning models for food flavor
   prediction
AU Bi K; Zhang D/2; Qiu T; Huang Y/1
TC 49
SO PROCESS
PY 2020
AB food flavor quality evaluation is attracting continuous attention , but a
   suitable evaluation system is severely lacking . gas chromatography mass
   spectrometry / olfactometry ( gc ms / o ) is widely used to solve the food
   flavor evaluation problem , but the olfactometry evaluation is unfeasible to
   be carried out in large batches and is unreliable due to potential issue of
   an operator or systematic laboratory effect . thus , a novel fingerprint
   modeling and profiling process was proposed based on several machine
   learning models including convolutional neural network ( cnn ) . the
   fingerprint template was created by the data analysis of existing gc ms
   spectrum dataset . then the fingerprint image generation program was applied
   for structuring the complex instrumental data . food olfactometry result was
   obtained by a machine learning method based on cnn using fingerprint image
   as the input . the case study on peanut oil samples demonstrated the model
   accuracy of around 93 % . by structure optimization and further dataset
   expansion , the whole process has the potential to be utilized by sensory
   laboratories for aroma analysis instead of humans
DE convolutional neural network; fingerprint modeling; gc-ms/o profiling;
   machine learning; odor compounds

---

UT 1590
AR Magnus I, 2021, FOOD CONTROL, V130, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2021.108342
TI Combining optical spectroscopy and machine learning to improve food
   classification
AU Magnus I; Virte M; Thienpont H; Smeesters L
TC 50
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2021
AB near infrared spectroscopic data , used for non destructive product
   identification , are traditionally processed using multivariate data
   analysis techniques . however , these methods often cover only a limited
   product variability . we target the development of a novel machine learning
   based algorithm enabling the identification of foreign objects , in
   combination with food safety and quality evaluation in a product stream , by
   combining the information from ultraviolet , visible , near infrared
   reflection spectroscopy and fluorescence spectroscopy . therefore , we
   implemented a novel classification scheme using a cascade of individual
   classifiers combining both types of spectral data . in addition , to ease
   implementation in industrial applications and reduce processing time , we
   applied a feature selection search , limiting the considered illumination
   and detection wavelengths to 8. as an illustration of our novel
   classification algorithm , we present the processing of walnuts in this
   paper . the optimal cascade consists of a first classifier based on
   reflection measurements using extreme learning machine and a second
   classifier based on fluorescence measurements using support vector machines
   . a false negative rate of the good nuts of 5.54 % was found , while the
   maximal false positive rate equals 8.34 % , for shriveled walnuts . all
   other sample defects , including both foreign objects and molds , show a
   correct classification rate exceeding 98 % . consequently , this excellent
   performance indicates the strength of machine learning processing for
   multipurpose food processing applications
DE fluorescence spectroscopy; food safety; machine learning; nondestructive
   food classification; uv-vis-nir reflection spectroscopy; walnuts

---

UT 1591
AR Shahbazi Z, 2021, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V10, P1, DOI
   10.3390/electronics10010041
TI A procedure for tracing supply chains for perishable food based on
   blockchain, machine learning and fuzzy logic
AU Shahbazi Z; Byun Y-C
TC 76
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2021
AB one of the essential points of food manufacturing in the industry and shelf
   life of the products is to improve the food traceability system . in recent
   years , the food traceability mechanism has become one of the emerging
   blockchain applications in order to improve the anti counterfeiting area s
   quality . many food manufacturing systems have a low level of readability ,
   scalability , and data accuracy . similarly , this process is complicated in
   the supply chain and needs a lot of time for processing . the blockchain
   system creates a new ontology in the traceability system supply chain to
   deal with these issues . in this paper , a blockchain machine learning based
   food traceability system ( bmlfts ) is proposed in order to combine the new
   extension in blockchain , machine learning technology ( ml ) , and fuzzy
   logic traceability system that is based on the shelf life management system
   for manipulating perishable food . the blockchain technology in the proposed
   system has been developed in order to address light weight , evaporation ,
   warehouse transactions , or shipping time . the blockchain data flow is
   designed to show the extension of ml at the level of food traceability .
   finally , reliable and accurate data are used in a supply chain to improve
   shelf life
DE blockchain; fuzzy logic; machine learning; perishable food; traceability
   system

---

UT 1592
AR Sarwinda D, 2020, INT CONF COMPUT INFORMATICS ENG IC2IE, P43, DOI
   10.1109/IC2IE50715.2020.9274636
TI Automatic Multi-class Classification of Indonesian Traditional Food using
   Convolutional Neural Networks
AU Sarwinda D; Argyadiva T; Saragih LBS; Oktareza M; Handi Bagus P; Fauzan F;
   Erickson B
TC 7
SO INT CONF COMPUT INFORMATICS ENG IC2IE
PY 2020
AB the culinary industry in indonesia is growing fast in this era of
   globalization . with the increasing trend in fast food and other foreign
   culinary , indonesia is threatening its local culinary existential . a lack
   of database about local culinary causing a lack of information in its people
   . therefore , there is a need for a system model that can identify a local
   culinary . hence , it can provide easy access to information to indonesian
   and provide a database . this database can also help the government to
   promote indonesian food and a chance to keep their existence . this research
   proposes to make a model that can identify indonesian food with deep
   learning techniques . convolutional neural network is chosen as a deep
   learning technique to recognize ten types of indonesian food , namely kue
   rangi , kue putu , bika ambon , ayam taliwang , putu mayang , kerak telor ,
   kue ape , papeda , gudeg , and sate bandeng . we used resnet50 architecture
   to classify multi class labeling . datasets will consist of 200 images and
   will be duplicated into three models of separating datasets . in the first
   model , the dataset has a composition of 75 % training dataset and a 25 %
   testing dataset . similarly , the second model , the dataset has 80:20 of
   composition , and the third model has 85:15 of composition for training and
   testing dataset . the experimental results show the third model has the best
   accuracy of 100 % , with 30/30 images predicted correctly
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; indonesian food
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; database systems; deep learning; statistical tests; learning
   techniques; multi-class classification; multi-class labeling; system
   modeling; three models; traditional food; training and testing; training
   dataset; learning systems

---

UT 1593
AR Davis CR, 2020, INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL, V17, P1, DOI
   10.3390/ijerph17239137
TI A process evaluation examining the performance, adherence, and acceptability
   of a physical activity and diet artificial intelligence virtual health
   assistant
AU Davis CR; Murphy KJ; Curtis RG; Maher CA
TC 48
SO INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2020
AB artificial intelligence virtual health assistants are a promising emerging
   technology . this study is a process evaluation of a 12-week pilot physical
   activity and diet program delivered by virtual assistant ' paola ' . this
   single arm repeated measures study ( n = 28 , aged 4575 years ) was
   evaluated on technical performance ( accuracy of conversational exchanges )
   , engagement ( number of weekly check ins completed ) , adherence (
   percentage of step goal and recommended food servings ) , and user feedback
   . paola correctly asked scripted questions and responded to participants
   during the check ins 97 % and 96 % of the time , respectively , but
   correctly responded to spontaneous exchanges only 21 % of the time .
   participants completed 63 % of weekly check ins and conducted a total of
   3648 exchanges . mean dietary adherence was 91 % and was lowest for
   discretionary foods , grains , red meat , and vegetables . participants met
   their step goal 59 % of the time . participants enjoyed the program and
   found paola useful during check ins but not for spontaneous exchanges . more
   in depth knowledge , personalized advice and spontaneity were identified as
   important improvements . virtual health assistants should ensure an adequate
   knowledge base and ability to recognize intents and entities , include
   personality and spontaneity , and provide ongoing technical troubleshooting
   of the virtual assistant to ensure the assistant remains effective
DE chatbot; conversational agent; intervention; lifestyle; mediterranean diet;
   physical activity; process evaluation; virtual health assistant
ID aged; artificial intelligence; diet; exercise; humans; middle aged;
   motivation; vegetables; diet; health and safety; lifestyle; performance
   assessment; physical activity; public health; technological change; adult;
   article; artificial intelligence; clinical article; dietary compliance;
   female; grain; human; human experiment; knowledge base; lifestyle; male;
   mediterranean diet; middle aged; personality; physical activity; red meat;
   vegetable; aged; diet; exercise; motivation

---

UT 1594
AR Kumar TB, 2022, J FOOD QUAL, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/4661108
TI A Novel Model to Detect and Classify Fresh and Damaged Fruits to Reduce Food
   Waste Using a Deep Learning Technique
AU Kumar TB; Prashar D; Vaidya G; Kumar V/3; Kumar SD; Sammy F
TC 28
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2022
AB due to a lack of efficient measures for dealing with food waste at many
   levels , including food supply chains , homes , and restaurants , the world
   s food supply is shrinking at an alarming pace . in both homes and
   restaurants , overcooking and other factors are to be blamed for the
   majority of food that is wasted . families are the primary source of food
   waste , and we sought to reduce this by identifying fresh and damaged food .
   in agriculture , the detection of rotting fruits becomes crucial . despite
   the fact that people routinely classify healthy and rotten fruits , fruit
   growers find it ineffective . in contrast to humans , robots do not grow
   tired from doing the same thing again and again . because of this , finding
   faults in fruits is a declared objective of the agricultural business in
   order to save labor , waste , manufacturing costs , and time spent on the
   process . an infected apple may infect a healthy one if the defects are not
   discovered . food waste is more likely to occur as a consequence of this ,
   which causes several problems . input images are used to identify healthy
   and deteriorated fruits . various fruits were employed in this study ,
   including apples , bananas , and oranges . for classifying photographs into
   fresh and decaying fruits , softmax is used , while cnn obtains fruit image
   properties . a dataset from kaggle was used to evaluate the suggested model
   s performance , and it achieved a 97.14 percent accuracy rate . the
   suggested cnn model outperforms the current methods in terms of performance
   . 2022 t . bharath kumar et al .
ID deep learning; food supply; manufacture; supply chains; agricultural
   business; food supply chain; food waste; human robots; input image; learning
   techniques; manufacturing cost; manufacturing time; primary sources; time-
   spent; fruits

---

UT 1595
AR Rathi M, 2019, SMART HEAL SYST, P217, DOI 10.1201/9780429020575-14
TI Exploring Food Domain Using Deep Neural Networks
AU Rathi M; Jain S; Aggarwal U
TC 0
SO SMART HEAL SYST
PY 2019
AB this chapter constructs a multiclass classification model that is fast as
   well as accurate when there are a large number of classes ( food categories
   ) . it discusses a study that was aimed to apply convolutional neural
   network ( cnn ) with the use of data augmentation techniques to a set of
   five categories with a medium scaled food image dataset . the chapter
   proposes that it would suffice to recognize a generalized version of a
   particular food item , based on which its dietary value can be approximately
   estimated , for instance , calories . three different conventional
   algorithms , such as support vector machine ( svm ) , k nearest neighbor (
   knn ) , and random forest classification techniques , were used to train
   their respective models on a dataset of five categories , and their accuracy
   on the test images were recorded for the justification of using conventional
   neural networks

---

UT 1596
AR Pushpalatha KR, 2022, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT,
   V8, P591
TI Recognition of Foreign Bodies for Grading of Food Grains using Machine
   Learning Techniques
AU Pushpalatha KR; Karegowda AG; Poorrnima D
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2022
AB farmers sell food grains in market , which is usually assessed by visual
   inspection by food inspectors is a tedious and time consuming task . in this
   context , there is a dire need for development of automated system for
   grading of food grains . in this paper , work is carried out for recognition
   of foreign bodies ( stone , stick , broken grain and worm ) in food grain
   images which is supported by both window and android os . the proposed
   mobile app recognizes foreign bodies in food grain images using back
   propagation network ( bpn ) . outcome of the proposed work is displayed in
   the form of pie chart showing the relative percentage of foreign bodies ( if
   any ) and food grains in the input image . the developed automated system
   can be used by the robots for automated food grain assessment , automated
   sowing , wherein the robot can identify , grade , recognize foreign bodies
   in food grains
DE backpropagation network; food grain; foreign bodies; grading; image
   processing
ID automation; backpropagation; image processing; automated systems;
   backpropagation; backpropagation network; food grain; foreign bodies; images
   processing; machine learning techniques; mobile app; time-consuming tasks;
   visual inspection; grading

---

UT 1597
AR Kim J/2, 2020, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V1131 AISC, P190, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-39512-4_30
TI Identifying people based on machine learning classification of foods
   consumed in order to offer tailored healthier food options
AU Kim J/2; Lin S; Ferrara G; Hua J; Seto E
TC 4
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2020
AB using food recall data collected from over 8000 americans , we used machine
   learning to classify a person s demographic characteristics ( age , gender ,
   race , and income ) based on the foods they consumed in a 24-h period . the
   best performing models predicted gender correctly 61 % , race 44 % , and age
   43 % of the time on independent validation data . the model was subsequently
   used to provide tailored recommendations for healthier food options based on
   low calorie and low fat options for specific food groups that are typically
   consumed by other americans that match the person s demographics . this
   system is part of a larger smart human centered system that assists users in
   recording the foods they consume , recognizes nutritional content of the
   food , offers tailored recommendations for consuming healthier foods , and
   tracking behavior change over time
DE artificial intelligence; diet and nutrition; health; intelligent interfaces
   for human-artificial systems
ID artificial intelligence; consumer behavior; health; integration; intelligent
   systems; nutrition; population statistics; artificial systems; demographic
   characteristics; human-centered systems; on-machines; tracking behavior;
   validation data; machine learning

---

UT 1598
AR How M-L, 2020, SUSTAIN, V12, DOI 10.3390/SU12156272
TI Predictive insights for improving the resilience of global food security
   using artificial intelligence
AU How M-L; Chan YJ; Cheah S-M
TC 40
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2020
AB unabated pressures on food systems affect food security on a global scale .
   a human centric artificial intelligence based probabilistic approach is used
   in this paper to perform a unified analysis of data from the global food
   security index ( gfsi ) . the significance of this intuitive probabilistic
   reasoning approach for predictive forecasting lies in its simplicity and
   user friendliness to people who may not be trained in classical computer
   science or in software programming . in this approach , predictive modeling
   using a counterfactual probabilistic reasoning analysis of the gfsi dataset
   can be utilized to reveal the interplay and tensions between the variables
   that underlie food affordability , food availability , food quality and
   safety , and the resilience of natural resources . exemplars are provided in
   this paper to illustrate how computational simulations can be used to
   produce forecasts of good and bad conditions in food security using multi
   variant optimizations . the forecast of these future scenarios is useful for
   informing policy makers and stakeholders across domain verticals , so they
   can make decisions that are favorable to global food security
DE ai for social good; artificial intelligence; bayesian; cognitive
   scaffolding; counterfactual; global food security index; machine learning;
   predictive modeling; resilience; sustainability
ID artificial intelligence; computer simulation; dataset; food availability;
   food quality; food security; optimization; probability; software;
   stakeholder

---

UT 1599
AR Ushada M, 2017, APPL ARTIF INTELL, V31, P555, DOI
   10.1080/08839514.2017.1390327
TI Affective Temperature Control in Food SMEs using Artificial Neural Network
AU Ushada M; Okayama T; Khuriyati N; Suyantohadi A
TC 19
SO APPL ARTIF INTELL
PY 2017
AB this paper highlights modeling affective temperature control in food small
   and medium sized enterprises ( smes ) . modeling defined that workstation
   temperature set point could be controlled based on worker heart rate and
   workstation environment using artificial neural network ( ann ) . the
   research objectives were : 1 ) to propose modeling affective temperature
   control in food smes based on heart rate and workstation environment . and 2
   ) to develop an ann model for predicting workstation temperature set point .
   training and validation data were collected from six food smes in yogyakarta
   special region , indonesia . the data of temperature set points were
   verified using a simulated confined room . the inputs of the ann model were
   worker heart rate , workstation temperature , relative humidity distribution
   and light intensity . the output was temperature set point . research
   results concluded satisfactory performance of ann . the model could be used
   to provide environmental ergonomics in food smes
ID artificial heart; ergonomics; heart; neural networks; artificial neural
   network modeling; heart rate; indonesia; research objectives; setpoints;
   small and medium-sized enterprise; temperature-relative humidity; training
   data; validation data; workers; temperature control

---

UT 1600
AR Stein S, 2013, UBICOMP - PROC ACM INT JT CONF PERVASIVE UBIQUITOUS COMPUT,
   P729, DOI 10.1145/2493432.2493482
TI Combining embedded accelerometers with computer vision for recognizing food
   preparation activities
AU Stein S; McKenna SJ
TC 405
SO UBICOMP - PROC ACM INT JT CONF PERVASIVE UBIQUITOUS COMPUT
PY 2013
AB this paper introduces a publicly available dataset of complex activities
   that involve manipulative gestures . the dataset captures people preparing
   mixed salads and contains more than 4.5 hours of accelerometer and rgb d
   video data , detailed annotations , and an evaluation protocol for
   comparison of activity recognition algorithms . providing baseline results
   for one possible activity recognition task , this paper further investigates
   modality fusion methods at different stages of the recognition pipeline : (
   i ) prior to feature extraction through accelerometer localization , ( ii )
   at feature level via feature concatenation , and ( iii ) at classification
   level by combining classifier outputs . empirical evaluation shows that
   fusing in formation captured by these sensor types can considerably improve
   recognition performance .
DE accelerometers; activity recognition; computer vision; multi-modal dataset;
   sensor fusion
ID computer vision; feature extraction; motion estimation; sensors; ubiquitous
   computing; activity recognition; baseline results; combining classifiers;
   complex activity; empirical evaluations; evaluation protocol; multi-modal
   dataset; sensor fusion; accelerometers

---

UT 1601
AR Samraj A, 2020, INT CONF TECHNOL TRENDS ITT, P228, DOI
   10.1109/ITT51279.2020.9320870
TI Food genre classification from food images by deep neural network with
   tensorflow and keras
AU Samraj A; Sowmiya D; Deepthisri KA; Oviya R
TC 6
SO INT CONF TECHNOL TRENDS ITT
PY 2020
AB different varieties of food and its quality speak the culinary tendencies
   and religious beliefs of people from different regions of the world . the
   food reflects culture and each food uses unique and combination of
   ingredients . it is a fashion and trend now a day to develop new food
   varieties , cooking methods and trying out cross culture recipe . handling
   the food serving for a multi ethnic , multi culture and different belief
   people in a common environment like conferences , air lines , quarantine
   centers , even refugee camps etc . is a challenge and need concentration and
   attention . a safer way of using untiring intelligent machines to replace
   the food distribution to ease and protect chefs and kitchen staff is felt
   essential . we developed a system of intelligent visual food identification
   in order to avoid errors that may happen when handling big numbers of food
   distribution by deploying smart machines . we choose 17 assorted varieties
   of food images and trained the system to identify its correct type and
   nature . we used convolution neural network with tensor flow and keras and
   trained the network with 170 different food images . we trained the system
   with online and offline images and achieved training accuracy of percentage
   . the experiment results show 80 percentages and are not only limited to
   single entity but describing multiple possible labeling of food according to
   its nature
DE backpropagation multi-label learning ( bp mll ); cnn ( convolution neural
   network ); culinary identification; image processing; one hot encoding;
   tensorflow and keras
ID deep neural networks; image classification; neural networks; common
   environment; convolution neural network; cooking methods; food distribution;
   genre classification; intelligent machine; smart machines; training
   accuracy; thermal processing ( foods )

---

UT 1602
AR Essiet IO, 2015, IEEE INT CONF ADAPT SCI TECHNOL ICAST, V2015-January, DOI
   10.1109/ICASTECH.2014.7068097
TI Determination of food age using neural network
AU Essiet IO; Audu GA
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF ADAPT SCI TECHNOL ICAST
PY 2015
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is the aspect of computing concerned with
   programming computers to behave like humans . in spite of the fact that no
   artificial intelligence system is capable of fully simulating human behavior
   , there are aspects which have been successfully mimicked . one of these
   applications is the development of intelligent systems to model the human
   sense of smell . the artificial neural network is one tool which makes
   inferences based on pattern recognition of selected parameters in their
   environment . this paper applies the neural network to the determination of
   food age using ammonia concentration as the major metric . the resulting
   algorithm is capable of determining age of common food types ( in days )
   using supervised learning to obtain the knowledge inference database . a two
   process layer neural network topology was observed to provide most accurate
   results with overall accuracy of 95 percent . food samples used to obtain
   inference database include rice , beans , fresh vegetables , yam and
   potatoes
DE artificial intelligence; backpropagation; e-nose; neural network; supervised
   learning
ID artificial intelligence; behavioral research; computer programming; electric
   network topology; inference engines; intelligent systems; network layers;
   neural networks; pattern recognition; supervised learning; ammonia
   concentrations; artificial intelligence systems; e-nose; food samples; fresh
   vegetables; human behaviors; neural network topology; overall accuracies;
   backpropagation

---

UT 1603
AR Wu D/2, 2013, INSTRUM ASSESS FOOD SENS QUAL PRACT GUID, P165,195e, DOI
   10.1533/9780857098856.2.165
TI Food colour measurement using computer vision
AU Wu D/2; Sun D-W
TC 9
SO INSTRUM ASSESS FOOD SENS QUAL PRACT GUID
PY 2013
AB colour is the first and basic quality attribute of food for consumer
   perception . computer vision is a rapid , objective and economic inspection
   technique that could provide a detailed characterization of color uniformity
   at pixel based level . the chapter first reviews the principles of color
   measurement , including the concept of food color , visual color
   measurements and instrumental color measurements . the chapter then
   introduces computer vision measurement , including imaging systems and color
   spaces . the chapter also presents some applications of food color
   measurement using computer vision . finally , the advantages and
   disadvantages of computer vision for color measurement and its future are
   proposed . 2013 woodhead publishing limited all rights reserved .
DE color measurement; color space; computer vision; food; imaging system

---

UT 1604
AR Stauber Z, 2022, J LIFESTYLE MED, V16, P214, DOI 10.1177/1559827619893602
TI Multisite Medical Student–Led Community Culinary Medicine Classes Improve
   Patients’ Diets: Machine Learning–Augmented Propensity Score–Adjusted Fixed
   Effects Cohort Analysis of 1381 Subjects
AU Stauber Z; Razavi AC; Sarris L; Harlan TS; Monlezun DJ
TC 25
SO J LIFESTYLE MED
PY 2022
AB background . healthy diet represents one of the largest single modifiable
   risk factors proven to decrease rates of obesity and associated chronic
   disease , but practical approaches to improving dietary habits through
   nutritional intervention are limited . objective . to evaluate the
   effectiveness of a medical studentled , 6-week culinary course on
   participants dietary knowledge and behaviors , particularly focusing on the
   tenets of the mediterranean diet ( meddiet ) . design . this study is a
   prospective multisite cohort study evaluating the effects of a 6-week ,
   hands on community culinary education course offered at 3 sites .
   participants knowledge of cooking skills , eating habits , and adherence to
   the meddiet were evaluated using a survey prior to beginning and 6 weeks
   after the completion of the course . analysis was conducted using
   multivariable regression to assess subjects diets , associated behaviors ,
   and nutrition beliefs according to the number of classes to which they were
   exposed ( 0 to > 6 ) . statistical results were then compared with the
   machine learning results to check statistical validity after selection of
   the top performing algorithm from 43 supervised algorithms using 10-fold
   cross validation with performance assessed according to accuracy , root
   relative square error , and root mean square error . results . among the
   1381 participants , cooking classes significantly improved patients overall
   9-point meddiet adherence ( = 0.62 , 95 % ci 0.23-1.00 , p =.002 ) .
   participants were more likely to meet meddiet point requirements for fruit
   intake ( odds ratio [ or ] 2.77 , 95 % ci 1.46-5.23 , p =.002 ) , vegetable
   intake ( or 4.61 , 95 % ci 1.85-11.53 , p =.001 ) , legume intake ( or 2.48
   , 95 % ci 1.45-4.26 , p =.001 ) , and olive oil use ( or 2.87 , 95 % ci
   1.44-5.74 , p =.003 ) , and were less likely to believe that cooking takes
   excessive time ( or 0.31 , 95 % ci 0.16-0.59 , p < .001 ) . conclusion .
   hands on culinary education courses were associated with increased meddiet
   adherence and improved knowledge of healthful eating . such interventions
   thus represent a cost effective option for addressing rates of obesity and
   obesity related chronic illness
DE culinary medicine; medical students; nutrition education

---

UT 1605
AR Zhou Y/7, 2022, MOD FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V38, P216, DOI
   10.13982/j.mfst.1673-9078.2022.4.0727
TI Neurotoxicity Prediction Model of Food Contaminants Based on Machine
   Learning; [基于机器学习算法的食品污染物神经毒性预测模型建立]
AU Zhou Y/7; Li X/5; Cheng W; Feng Y; Wang Y/9
TC 2
SO MOD FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB prediction models based on machine learning algorithms are established to
   predict the neurotoxicity of chemical pollutants in food . database which
   includes fifty seven neurotoxic compounds and fifty non neurotoxic compounds
   was established through the published paper . by utilizing the r and spss
   software , the random forest ( random forests , rf ) , neural network (
   artificial neural network , ann ) , support vector machine ( support vector
   machine , svm ) and other algorithms were used to build the classification
   models applying the molecular descriptors . the random forest algorithm
   represented the best performance in aspects of total accuracy and
   feasibility , illustrating total accuracy of training set and test set was
   95.51 % and 83.33 % , respectively . the area under the curves of training
   set and test set were 0.99 and 0.85 , respectively . the accuracy of 10-fold
   cross validation was 70.24 % . in this study , the prediction models
   established on the basis of machine learning algorithms and chemical
   informatics can accurately distinguish the neurotoxicity compounds from non
   neurotoxicity compounds . our result suggested that among models , the one
   constructed with the random forest algorithm performs better and the highest
   eigenvalue from burden matrix as a molecular descriptor contributes
   dominantly to the classification of chemicals with neurotoxic potential .
   2022 , editorial board of modern food science and technology . all right
   reserved .
DE food contaminant; machine learning algorithms; neurotoxicity; toxicity
   prediction

---

UT 1606
AR Ibrahim HB, 2018, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V37, P852, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-74500-8_77
TI Computer Vision Control System for Food Industry
AU Ibrahim HB; Aiadi O; Zardoua Y; Jbilou M; Amami B
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2018
AB defects in production can appear as a result of material and human errors .
   a food product with a defect may be the because of direct and indirect
   losses caused by product recalls , logistic problems , destruction of
   defective products , reputation issues , possible penalties , etc . the
   purpose of this work is to minimize the human intervention and substitute it
   to the maximum extent with an automatic inspection system based on the
   artificial vision technology that will carry out the inspection task . to do
   so , the main functions of the system had to be elaborated in a
   specification . examples of the inspection functions are barcode reading ,
   label verification , content level checking , etc . each function is
   performed and tested independently . the tests carried out made it possible
   to record the conditions necessary for the execution of each inspection ,
   which is an indispensable factor in achieving the appropriate physical
   design . these functions are grouped in a single application with three
   interfaces ( login , inspection and configuration ) . it allows the user to
   inspect the products according to a configuration that he can define . this
   work was developed based on national instrument platform , the software code
   was made with labview software , which resources and libraries are adequate
   for such a work . 2018 , springer international publishing ag .
DE edge detection; image binarization; image processing; particle analysis;
   pattern matching; score

---

UT 1607
AR Zhang X/3, 2020, APPL SOFT COMPUT, V89, DOI 10.1016/j.asoc.2019.106051
TI Hybridization of cognitive computing for food services
AU Zhang X/3; Yang S/1; Srivastava G; Chen M-Y; Cheng X
TC 9
SO APPL SOFT COMPUT
PY 2020
AB the application of data mining technology to food services and the
   restaurant industry has certain social value . by predicting customer
   traffic and needs , a restaurant can prepare a reasonable amount of meals
   for customers according to predicted needs which is conducive to improving
   the dining experience of customers and also improving the quality of food
   preparation and making the restaurant itself operate more efficiently . in
   recent years , we have seen the use of collaborative robots for use in the
   fast food industry . in asia and more specifically in japan , we have seen
   many fast food chains implement the use of robots to better serve their
   customers . by studying the linear regression algorithm and the random
   forest algorithm , this paper proposes a new interwoven novel fusion
   approach of combining both algorithms and applies the new model to
   restaurant data to assist in the prediction of customer traffic in the
   restaurant industry . this predictive algorithm using cognitive techniques
   can assist these newly place robots in the food industry better serve their
   client base and in doing so make the industry more efficient . experimental
   , comparison , and analysis are reported in the paper . the error rate of
   the fusion solution is reduced by approximately 5.503 % compared with the
   linear regression algorithm and is approximately 3.719 % lower than the
   error rate of the random forest algorithm . results show that the new fusion
   algorithm can achieve better prediction results of customer traffic
   prediction for the restaurant industry . furthermore , we also provide a new
   take on the application of data mining technology in the restaurant industry
   itself
DE cognitive computing; data mining; food service robots; fusion; linear
   regression; random forest; restaurant industry
ID decision trees; forecasting; fusion reactions; linear regression; random
   forests; robots; sales; service industry; traffic control; cognitive
   computing; collaborative robots; data mining technology; fast food
   industries; food services; linear regression algorithms; predictive
   algorithms; random forest algorithm; data mining

---

UT 1608
AR Gorbachev V, 2022, APPL SCI, V12, DOI 10.3390/app12126290
TI Artificial Neural Networks for Predicting Food Antiradical Potential
AU Gorbachev V; Nikitina M; Velina D; Mutallibzoda S; Nosov V; Korneva G;
   Terekhova A; Artemova E; Khashir B; Sokolov I; Dimitrieva S; Nikitin I
TC 13
SO APPL SCI
PY 2022
AB using an artificial neural network ( ann ) , the values of the antiradical
   potential of 1315 items of food and agricultural raw materials were
   calculated . we used an ann with the structure of a ' multilayer perceptron
   ' ( mlp ) and with the hyberbolic tangent ( tanh ) as an activation function
   . values reported in the united states food and nutrient database for
   dietary studies ( fndds ) were taken as input to the analysis . when
   training the ann , 60 parameters were used , such as the content of plastic
   substances , food calories , the amount of mineral components , vitamins ,
   the composition of fatty acids and additional substances presented in this
   database . the analysis revealed correlations , namely , a direct
   relationship between the value of the antiradical potential ( arp ) of food
   and the concentration of dietary fiber ( are = 0.539 ) and a negative
   correlation between the value of arp and the total calorie content of food (
   are = 0.432 ) at a significance level of p < 0.001 for both values . the
   average arp value for 10 product groups within the 95 % ci ( confidence
   interval ) was 2328 equivalents ( in terms of ascorbic acid ) per 1 g of dry
   matter . the study also evaluated the range of average values of the daily
   recommended intake of food components ( according to food and agriculture
   organization fao , world health organization who , russia and the usa ) ,
   which within the 95 % ci , amounted to 23.4128.98 equivalents per 1 g of dry
   weight . based on the results of the study , it was found that the predicted
   arp values depend not only on the type of raw materials and the method of
   their processing , but also on a number of other environmental and
   technological factors that make it difficult to obtain accurate values
DE antioxidants; antiradical activity; artificial neural network ( ann );
   bread; cereals; confectionery; dpph ( 22-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ); eggs;
   fish; meat; milk; shelf life

---

UT 1609
AR Nica-Avram G, 2021, J BUS RES, V131, P469, DOI 10.1016/j.jbusres.2020.09.028
TI Identifying food insecurity in food sharing networks via machine learning
AU Nica-Avram G; Harvey J; Smith G; Smith A; Goulding J
TC 37
SO J BUS RES
PY 2021
AB food insecurity in the uk has captured public attention . however ,
   estimates of its prevalence are deeply contentious . the lack of precision
   on the volume of emergency food assistance currently provided to those in
   need is made even more ambiguous due to increasing use of peer to peer food
   sharing systems ( e . g . olio ) . while these initiatives exist as a
   solution to food waste rather than food poverty , they are nonetheless
   carrying a hidden share of the food insecurity burden , with the socio
   economic status of technology assisted food sharing donors , volunteers ,
   and recipients remaining obscure . in this article we examine the
   relationship between food sharing and deprivation generally , before
   applying machine learning techniques to develop a predictive model of food
   insecurity based upon aggregated food sharing behaviors by olio users in the
   uk . we demonstrate that data from food sharing systems can help quantify a
   previously hidden aspect of deprivation and we make the case for a reformed
   approach to modeling food insecurity
DE economic deprivation; food insecurity; food sharing; food waste; machine
   learning; sharing economy

---

UT 1610
AR Hnoohom N, 2018, INT ECTI NORTH SECT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT TELECOMMUN
   ENG ECTI-NCON, P116, DOI 10.1109/ECTI-NCON.2018.8378293
TI Thai fast food image classification using deep learning
AU Hnoohom N; Yuenyong S
TC 43
SO INT ECTI NORTH SECT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT TELECOMMUN ENG ECTI-NCON
PY 2018
AB this paper presents a prediction model for classifying thai fast food images
   . the model uses a deep learning process that was trained on natural images
   ( googlenet dataset ) and was fine tuned to generate the predictive thai
   fast food model . the researchers created a dataset , called the thai fast
   food ( tff ) dataset , which contained 3,960 images . the dataset was
   divided into eleven groups of food images comprised of omelet on rice , rice
   topped with stir fried chicken and basil , barbecued red pork in sauce with
   rice , stewed pork leg on rice , thai fried noodle , rice with curried
   chicken , steamed chicken with rice , shrimp paste fried rice , fried noodle
   with pork in soy sauce and vegetables , wide rice noodles with vegetables
   and meat . the final group comprised dishes which are not members of the
   other ten groups listed ( non ten types ) , but which exist among thai fast
   food . the classification average accuracy on a separate test set shows that
   thai fast food can be predicted at 88.33 %
DE classification; deep learning; thai fast food images
ID animals; classification ( of information ); image classification; meats;
   vegetables; fast food; food image; learning process; model use; natural
   images; prediction model; soy sauce; test sets; deep learning

---

UT 1611
AR Kobets V, 2021, NEURO-FUZZY MODEL TECH ECON, V10, P86, DOI
   10.33111/nfmte.2021.086
TI EU COUNTRIES CLUSTERING FOR THE STATE OF FOOD SECURITY USING MACHINE
   LEARNING TECHNIQUES
AU Kobets V; Novak O
TC 9
SO NEURO-FUZZY MODEL TECH ECON
PY 2021
AB the food security problem has emerged from the growing pressure of
   demographic problem and global inequality . overall , the state of food
   security is optimal in the eu . this was achieved due to effective
   implementation of regulatory initiatives regarding eu countries food self
   sufficiency and intra eu food market protection . the purpose of the
   research paper was to cluster eu countries in terms of food security level
   using advanced mathematical modeling tools . to this end , we selected 5
   food security factors ( fao food production index , total factor
   productivity in agriculture , per capita agricultural expenditure , consumer
   prices food , net trade food index ) to which we applied the following
   cluster analysis algorithms ( self organizing maps , dendrograms , k means
   and k medoids clustering ) . as a result of the conducted experimental
   research , it was found that self organizing maps and dendrograms methods to
   be better suited for data visualization , whereas k means and k medoids give
   more accurate and detailed solutions . the obtained results gave us an
   opportunity to define the advantages and disadvantages of the selected
   clustering methods , as well as to present agripolicy recommendations for
   different groups of eu countries . 2021 , vadym hetman kyiv national
   university of economics
DE cluster analysis; food security; hierarchical clustering; k-means;
   k-medoids; self-organizing map

---

UT 1612
AR De Clercq M/1, 2016, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V49, P1, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2015.11.010
TI Data-driven recipe completion using machine learning methods
AU De Clercq M/1; Stock M; De Baets B/1; Waegeman W/1
TC 26
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2016
AB background : completing recipes is a non trivial task , as the success of
   ingredient combinations depends on a multitude of factors such as taste ,
   smell and texture . scope and approach : in this article , we illustrate
   that machine learning methods can be applied for this purpose . non negative
   matrix factorization and two step regularized least squares are presented as
   two alternative methods and their ability to build models to complete
   recipes is evaluated . the former method exploits information captured in
   existing recipes to complete a recipe , while the latter one is able to also
   incorporate information on flavor profiles of ingredients . the performance
   of the resulting models is evaluated on real life data . key findings and
   conclusions : the two machine learning methods can be used to build models
   to complete a recipe . both models are able to retrieve an eliminated
   ingredient from a recipe and the two step rls model is also capable of
   completing an ingredient set to create a complete recipe . by applying
   machine learning methods on existing recipes , it is not necessary to model
   the complexity of good ingredient combinations to be able to complete a
   recipe
DE ingredient combinations; non-negative matrix factorization; recipe
   completion; recommender systems; two-step regularized least squares
ID artificial intelligence; factorization; least squares approximations; matrix
   algebra; recommender systems; flavor profiles; ingredient combinations;
   machine learning methods; non-trivial tasks; non-negative matrix
   factorization; real-life data; regularized least squares; two machines;
   learning systems

---

UT 1613
AR Ropodi AI, 2016, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V50, P11, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2016.01.011
TI Data mining derived from food analyses using non-invasive/non-destructive
   analytical techniques; determination of food authenticity, quality & safety
   in tandem with computer science disciplines
AU Ropodi AI; Panagou EZ/1; Nychas G-JE
TC 172
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2016
AB background : food quality , safety and authenticity are important issues for
   consumers , governments , as well as the food industry . in the last decade
   , several researchers have attempted to go beyond traditional
   microbiological , dna based and other methods using rapid techniques . this
   broad term involves a variety of sensors such as hyperspectral and
   multispectral imaging , vibrational spectroscopy , as well as biomimetic
   receptors . scope and approach : the resulting data acquired from the above
   mentioned sensors require the application of various case specific data
   analysis methods for the purpose of simple understanding and visualization
   of the acquired high dimensional dataset , but also for classification and
   prediction purposes . key findings and conclusions : it is evident that
   rapid techniques coupled with data analysis methods have given promising
   results in several food products with various sensors . additionally there
   are several applications , new sensors and new algorithms that remain to be
   explored and validated in the future
DE chemometrics; e-nose; hyper/multispectral imaging; machine learning;
   spectroscopy
ID accident prevention; authentication; biomimetics; classification ( of
   information ); data mining; data visualization; food products; hyperspectral
   imaging; learning systems; spectroscopy; chemometrics; data analysis
   methods; food analysis; food authenticity; food industries; high-dimensional
   dataset; multispectral imaging; science disciplines; food safety

---

UT 1614
AR Pan L, 2019, COMPUT MATER CONTIN, V59, P297, DOI 10.32604/cmc.2019.04097
TI Image augmentation-based food recognition with convolutional neural networks
AU Pan L; Qin J; Chen H/3; Xiang X; Li C/5; Chen R
TC 54
SO COMPUT MATER CONTIN
PY 2019
AB image retrieval for food ingredients is important work , tremendously tiring
   , uninteresting , and expensive . computer vision systems have extraordinary
   advancements in image retrieval with cnns skills . but it is not feasible
   for small size food datasets using convolutional neural networks directly .
   in this study , a novel image retrieval approach is presented for small and
   medium scale food datasets , which both augments images utilizing image
   transformation techniques to enlarge the size of datasets , and promotes the
   average accuracy of food recognition with state of the art deep learning
   technologies . first , typical image transformation techniques are used to
   augment food images . then transfer learning technology based on deep
   learning is applied to extract image features . finally , a food recognition
   algorithm is leveraged on extracted deep feature vectors . the presented
   image retrieval architecture is analyzed based on a small scale food dataset
   which is composed of forty one categories of food ingredients and one
   hundred pictures for each category . extensive experimental results
   demonstrate the advantages of image augmentation architecture for small and
   medium datasets using deep learning . the novel approach combines image
   augmentation , resnet feature vectors , and smo classification , and shows
   its superiority for food detection of small / medium scale datasets with
   comprehensive experiments
DE convolutional neural network; deep feature; deep learning; image
   augmentation; small-scale dataset
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; deep learning; food
   additives; network architecture; neural networks; search engines; computer
   vision system; convolutional neural network; deep feature; image
   augmentation; image retrieval architecture; image transformations;
   recognition algorithm; small-scale; image retrieval

---

UT 1615
AR Friedlander A, 2020, FOOD PROT TRENDS, V40, P272
TI Artificial intelligence opportunities to improve food safety at retail
AU Friedlander A; Zoellner C
TC 45
SO FOOD PROT TRENDS
PY 2020
AB food retailers drive food safety programs throughout the supply chain ,
   within their stores , and across e commerce platforms to mitigate the risk
   of foodborne illness for consumers . delivery of food safety from the
   producer through retail requires strong food safety culture , reliable data
   , robust database management , and technical expertise . artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) has been proposed for its potential to advance and
   transform food safety practices and outcomes . this article aims to
   introduce ai terminology and definitions to a food safety audience and to
   outline the opportunities , challenges , and ethical considerations when
   adopting ai based technologies at retail . for food safety at retail , the
   applications of ai presented here are categorized as vision , text ,
   interactive , analytical , or functional based solutions . as ai
   capabilities continue to develop , food safety professionals will have a
   role in shaping the tools and algorithms that are adopted across the food
   industry , including at the retail sector . ai can strengthen food safety
   but , to be successful , will require strategic collaborations across the
   supply chain , including with technology providers , regulators , and
   academics . 2020 , international association for food protection

---

UT 1616
AR Rejeb A, 2022, ARTIF INTELL AGRIC, V6, P111, DOI 10.1016/j.aiia.2022.08.002
TI Examining the interplay between artificial intelligence and the agri-food
   industry
AU Rejeb A; Rejeb K; Zailani S; Keogh JG; Appolloni A
TC 103
SO ARTIF INTELL AGRIC
PY 2022
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) has advanced at an astounding rate and
   transformed numerous economic sectors . nevertheless , a comprehensive
   understanding of how ai can improve the agri food industry is lacking . in
   addition , there is a notable dearth of research on ai that investigates the
   influence of ai on agri food resources and educates practitioners on the
   significance of knowledge based and smart agriculture . we utilized
   bibliometric analysis to investigate the present state of the art and
   emerging trends in the relationship between ai and the agri food industry .
   the research identified three distinct growth phases and the most prevalent
   ai strategies in the industry . in addition , we analyzed key trends and
   offered researchers and practitioners insightful recommendations for future
   research . using resource based view ( rbv ) as the theoretical lens , this
   study established a framework emphasizing the long term effects of ai on
   various agri food resources and proposed several research propositions . in
   addition , ai related obstacles have been identified and categorized into
   four major categories . lastly , the originality of the article lies in its
   numerous research suggestions and recommendations for advancing the ai field
   in the agri food industry
DE agriculture; artificial intelligence; bibliometric analysis; deep learning;
   farming; machine learning; resource-based view
ID farms; knowledge based systems; learning systems; agri-food industry;
   bibliometrics analysis; deep learning; economic sectors; farming; food
   resources; knowledge based agriculture; machine learning; resource-based
   view; smart agricultures; deep learning

---

UT 1617
AR Ben Ayed R, 2021, J FOOD QUAL, V2021, DOI 10.1155/2021/5584754
TI Artificial Intelligence to Improve the Food and Agriculture Sector
AU Ben Ayed R; Hanana M
TC 309
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2021
AB the world population is expected to reach over 9 billion by 2050 , which
   will require an increase in agricultural and food production by 70 % to fit
   the need , a serious challenge for the agri food industry . such requirement
   , in a context of resources scarcity , climate change , covid 19 pandemic ,
   and very harsh socioeconomic conjecture , is difficult to fulfill without
   the intervention of computational tools and forecasting strategy . hereby ,
   we report the importance of artificial intelligence and machine learning as
   a predictive multidisciplinary approach integration to improve the food and
   agriculture sector , yet with some limitations that should be considered by
   stakeholders . 2021 rayda ben ayed and mohsen hanana .
ID agricultural robots; agriculture; climate change; agri-food industry;
   agriculture sectors; computational tools; food production; multi-
   disciplinary approach; world population; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1618
AR Iwendi C, 2020, IEEE ACCESS, V8, P28462, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2968537
TI Realizing an Efficient IoMT-Assisted Patient Diet Recommendation System
   Through Machine Learning Model
AU Iwendi C; Khan S; Anajemba JH; Bashir AK; Noor F
TC 231
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2020
AB recent studies have shown that robust diets recommended to patients by
   dietician or an artificial intelligent automated medical diet based cloud
   system can increase longevity , protect against further disease , and
   improve the overall quality of life . however , medical personnel are yet to
   fully understand patient dietician s rationale of recommender system . this
   paper proposes a deep learning solution for health base medical dataset that
   automatically detects which food should be given to which patient base on
   the disease and other features like age , gender , weight , calories ,
   protein , fat , sodium , fiber , cholesterol . this research framework is
   focused on implementing both machine and deep learning algorithms like ,
   logistic regression , naive bayes , recurrent neural network ( rnn ) ,
   multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) , gated recurrent units ( gru ) , and long
   short term memory ( lstm ) . the medical dataset collected through the
   internet and hospitals consists of 30 patient s data with 13 features of
   different diseases and 1000 products . product section has 8 features set .
   the features of these iomt data were analyzed and further encoded before
   applying deep and machine and learning based protocols . the performance of
   various machine learning and deep learning techniques was carried and the
   result proves that lstm technique performs better than other scheme with
   respect to forecasting accuracy , recall , precision , and f1 -measures . we
   achieved 97.74 % accuracy using lstm deep learning model . similarly 98 %
   precision , 99 % recall and 99 % f1 -measure for allowed class is achieved ,
   and for not allowed class precision is 89 % , recall score is 73 % and f1
   measure score is 80 %
DE gru; iomt; lstm; naive bayes logistic regression; recommendation system; rnn
ID classifiers; deep learning; learning algorithms; learning systems; logistic
   regression; multilayer neural networks; recommender systems; artificial
   intelligent; forecasting accuracy; iomt; lstm; machine learning models;
   multilayer perceptron; naive bayes; recurrent neural network ( rnn ); long
   short-term memory

---

UT 1619
AR McAllister P, 2016, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V10069 LNCS, P178, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-48746-5_18
TI Towards personalised training of machine learning algorithms for food image
   classification using a smartphone camera
AU McAllister P; Zheng H; Bond R; Moorhead A
TC 11
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2016
AB this work is related to the development of a personalized machine learning
   algorithm that is able to classify food images for food logging . the
   algorithm would be personalized as it would allow users to decided what food
   items the model will be able to classify . this novel concept introduces the
   idea of promoting dietary monitoring through classifying food images for
   food logging by personalizing a machine learning algorithm . the food image
   classification algorithm will be trained based on specific types of foods
   decided by the user ( most popular foods , food types e . g . vegetarian ) .
   this would mean that the classification algorithm would not have to be
   trained using a wide variety of foods which may lead to low accuracy rate
   but only a small number of foods chosen by the user . to test the concept ,
   a range of experiments were completed using 30 different food types . each
   food category contained 100 images . to train a classification algorithm ,
   features were extracted from each food type , features such as surf , lab
   color features , sfta , and local binary patterns were used . a number of
   classification algorithms were used in these experiments . nave bayes , smo
   , neural networks , and random forest . the highest accuracy achieved in
   this work was 69.43 % accuracy using bag of features ( bof ) color , bof
   surf , sfta , and lbp using a neural network
DE classification; food logging; machine learning; obesity; photographs
ID ambient intelligence; artificial intelligence; chemical contamination;
   classification ( of information ); decision trees; image classification;
   learning systems; bag-of-features; classification algorithm; color features;
   local binary patterns; obesity; photographs; random forests; smartphone
   cameras; learning algorithms

---

UT 1620
AR Mery D, 2013, FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL, V6, P2093, DOI
   10.1007/s11947-012-0934-2
TI Automated Design of a Computer Vision System for Visual Food Quality
   Evaluation
AU Mery D; Pedreschi F; Soto A
TC 51
SO FOOD BIOPROCESS TECHNOL
PY 2013
AB considerable research efforts in computer vision applied to food quality
   evaluation have been developed in the last years . however , they have been
   concentrated on using or developing tailored methods based on visual
   features that are able to solve a specific task . nevertheless , today s
   computer capabilities are giving us new ways to solve complex computer
   vision problems . in particular , a new paradigm on machine learning
   techniques has emerged posing the task of recognizing visual patterns as a
   search problem based on training data and a hypothesis space composed by
   visual features and suitable classifiers . furthermore , now we are able to
   extract , process , and test in the same time more image features and
   classifiers than before . thus , we propose a general framework that designs
   a computer vision system automatically , i . e . , it finds without human
   interaction the features and the classifiers for a given application
   avoiding the classical trial and error framework commonly used by human
   designers . the key idea of the proposed framework is to select
   automatically from a large set of features and a bank of classifiers those
   features and classifiers that achieve the highest performance . we tested
   our framework on eight different food quality evaluation problems yielding a
   classification performance of 95 % or more in every case . the proposed
   framework was implemented as a matlab toolbox available for noncommercial
   purposes . 2012 springer science+business media , llc .
DE classification; computer vision; feature extraction; feature selection; food
   quality evaluation; image analysis; image processing; image segmentation;
   pattern recognition
ID computer vision; feature extraction; image analysis; image processing; image
   segmentation; learning systems; pattern recognition; automated design;
   classification performance; computer vision problems; computer vision
   system; food quality; hypothesis space; matlab toolboxes; research efforts;
   classification ( of information )

---

UT 1621
AR Sun D-W/1, 2012, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND, P1, DOI
   10.1533/9780857095770
TI Computer vision technology in the food and beverage industries
AU Sun D-W/1
TC 24
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD BEVERAGE IND
PY 2012
AB the use of computer vision systems to control manufacturing processes and
   product quality has become increasingly important in food processing .
   computer vision technology in the food and beverage industries reviews image
   acquisition and processing technologies and their applications in particular
   sectors of the food industry . part one provides an introduction to computer
   vision in the food and beverage industries , discussing computer vision and
   infrared techniques for image analysis , hyperspectral and multispectral
   imaging , tomographic techniques and image processing . part two goes on to
   consider computer vision technologies for automatic sorting , foreign body
   detection and removal , automated cutting and image analysis of food
   microstructure . current and future applications of computer vision in
   specific areas of the food and beverage industries are the focus of part
   three . techniques for quality control of meats are discussed alongside
   computer vision in the poultry , fish and bakery industries , including
   techniques for grain quality evaluation , and the evaluation and control of
   fruit , vegetable and nut quality . 2012 woodhead publishing limited

---

UT 1622
AR Elakkiya N, 2018, PROC INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA, P1834,
   DOI 10.1109/ICECA.2018.8474663
TI Survey of Grading Process for Agricultural Foods by Using Artificial
   Intelligence Technique
AU Elakkiya N; Karthikeyan S; Ravi T
TC 11
SO PROC INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA
PY 2018
AB in industrial world the current demand of the consumer is better quality of
   the products . the grading system is used to detect the quality of the
   products . this system have been processed manually where it is not
   efficient and time consuming . to overcome these problems and to reduce the
   labor requirements , the machine vision technique is developed for grading
   system . the hardware and software is needed for the machine vision system .
   the hardware process like camera and the computer is needed to capture the
   images of the products . then the features of the respective images must be
   collected through computer and analyzed each and every features based on the
   image processing techniques . therefore the quality of the product can be
   determined easily and it reduces the time . to get an accurate value of the
   quality the artificial intelligence techniques are developed to improve the
   grading system . mostly the industrial products of food industry like
   agricultural products are well developed by using this artificial
   intelligence techniques of the grading system . thus the most relevant paper
   are collected and its drawbacks are listed on the below papers . the future
   work of the proposed system is the artificial intelligent technique are used
   as a classifier for the grading system to detect the accurate quality of the
   products . where this proposed system is mostly applicable to detect the
   quality of the fruits but this system can be implemented to other industrial
   products in terms of safety of the human beings and also it is applicable to
   multiple products resulted in improving the perfect grading system
DE artificial intelligence; grading process; image processing; industrial
   products and camera; machine vision
ID accident prevention; agricultural products; artificial intelligence;
   cameras; computer hardware; computer vision; fighter aircraft; image
   processing; artificial intelligence techniques; artificial intelligent
   techniques; grading process; hardware and software; image processing
   technique; industrial product; labor requirements; machine vision systems;
   grading

---

UT 1623
AR Oleksiv N, 2022, CEUR WORK PROC, V3171, P1321
TI Recommendation System for Monitoring the Energy Value of Consumer Food
   Products Based on Machine Learning
AU Oleksiv N; Veres O; Vasyliuk A; Rishnyak I; Chyrun L
TC 2
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2022
AB healthy eating is the because of longevity . rational consumption of
   products will help achieve high efficiency and activity throughout life . to
   improve the quality of your life , you do not need to read dozens of books
   and delve into medicine . just use intelligent systems . today , there are
   many different approaches to solving the problem of diet control in a
   fleeting world . the need for research on healthy eating in modern
   conditions is crucial to improving the physical condition of different age
   groups . after all , non compliance with the basic rules reduces life
   expectancy and provokes the emergence of non communicable diseases of
   various types : cancer , cardiovascular disease , and diabetes . the main
   goal is to create a system whose main task will help the end user follow a
   healthy diet . the primary skills of the system include the ability to
   recognize dishes , read barcodes , decompose a dish into a set of
   ingredients , calculate calories , and calculate the energy value consumed
   per day
DE calories counter; diet; food dataset; food recognition; idef; image
   analysis; machine learning; nutrition; ontology
ID diseases; intelligent systems; machine learning; nutrition; recommender
   systems; calory counter; energy value; food dataset; food recognition;
   higher efficiency; idef; image analysis; machine learning; on-machines;
   ontologys; food products

---

UT 1624
AR Tonda A, 2018, HUM-COMPUT INTERACT SER, VPart F10833, P459, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-90403-0_22
TI Interactive Machine Learning for Applications in Food Science
AU Tonda A; Boukhelifa N; Chabin T; Barnabé M; Génot B; Lutton E; Perrot N
TC 4
SO HUM-COMPUT INTERACT SER
PY 2018
AB the apparent simplicity of food processes often hides complex systems ,
   where physical , chemical and living organisms processes co exist and
   interact to create the final product . data can be plagued by uncertainty .
   heterogeneity of available information is likely . qualitative and
   quantitative data may also coexist in the same process , from expert
   perception of food quality to nano properties of ingredients . in order to
   obtain reliable models , it then becomes necessary to acquire additional
   information from external sources . experts of a domain can provide
   invaluable insight in products and processes , but this precious knowledge
   is often available only in the form of intuition and implicit expertise .
   including expert insight in a model can be tackled by having humans
   interacting with a machine learning process , through visualization or via
   specialists in encoding implicit domain knowledge . in this chapter , three
   selected case studies in food science portray different success stories of
   combining machine learning and expert interaction . we show that expert
   knowledge can be integrated at different stages of the modeling process ,
   either online or offline , to initialize , enrich or guide this process .
   springer international publishing ag , part of springer nature 2018 .

---

UT 1625
AR Chen D-Y, 2018, IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON-TAIWAN ICCE-TW, DOI
   10.1109/ICCE-China.2018.8448940
TI Hand-held Food Localization and Food Recognition Using Convolutional Neural
   Network
AU Chen D-Y; Wang H-S
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF CONSUM ELECTRON-TAIWAN ICCE-TW
PY 2018
AB in modern society , calories and carbohydrate intake leads to the obesities
   and diabetes sharply increases . for this reason , food recognition and its
   application attracted more and more attention . however , a variety of
   problem such as deformation and color difference because the difficulty in
   this task . especially , localization problem of food item is the most
   difficult , because the background always colorful and messy . in view of
   this , optical flow algorithm , which commonly used for foreground
   separation , is employed in this paper . based on the speed information ,
   hand held objects can be isolated from background according to the estimated
   optical flows . then , gradient and rgb color value of each pixel in an
   image are used for recognition . with the advantage of convolutional neural
   network , high stability and high tolerance , we finally get the remarkable
   precision in the experiment results , which show the feasibility of our
   proposed approach for real world environments
ID colorimetry; convolution; optical flows; color difference; convolutional
   neural network; food recognition; its applications; localization problems;
   optical flow algorithm; real-world environments; speed information; neural
   networks

---

UT 1626
AR Shukla AK, 2020, SPECTROSC TECH & ARTIF INTELL FOOD BEVERAGE ANAL, P1, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-6495-6
TI Spectroscopic Techniques & Artificial Intelligence for Food and Beverage
   Analysis
AU Shukla AK
TC 10
SO SPECTROSC TECH & ARTIF INTELL FOOD BEVERAGE ANAL
PY 2020
AB this informative book discusses the various spectroscopic techniques applied
   in the analysis of food and beverages . the respective chapters cover
   techniques such as laser induced breakdown spectroscopy ( libs ) , ftir
   spectroscopy , electron spin resonance ( esr ) spectroscopy and
   thermoluminescence . the book also presents artificial intelligence
   applications that can be used to enhance the spectral data analysis
   experience in food safety and quality analysis . given its scope , the book
   will appeal to novice researchers and students in the area of food science .
   it offers an equally exciting read for food scientists and engineers working
   in the food industry . springer nature singapore pte ltd . 2020 .
DE artificial intelligence; ir-spectroscopy; libs spectroscopy; mass
   spectrometry; tl spectroscopy; uv-visible spectroscopy

---

UT 1627
AR Santoso I, 2021, IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI, V924, DOI
   10.1088/1755-1315/924/1/012059
TI Machine learning application for sustainable agri-food supply chain
   performance: A review
AU Santoso I; Purnomo M; Sulianto AA; Choirun A
TC 26
SO IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI
PY 2021
AB the agri food supply chain consists of activities in ' farm to fork ' order
   , including agriculture ( i . e . , land cultivation and crop production ) ,
   production processes , packaging , warehousing systems , distribution ,
   transportation , and marketing . data analytics hold the key to ensuring
   future food security , food safety , and ecological sustainability . while
   emerging smart technologies such as the internet of things , machine
   learning , and cloud computing can change production management practices .
   the current study presents a systematic review of machine learning ( ml )
   applications in the agri food supply chain . this framework identifies the
   role of ml algorithms in providing real time analytical insights to assist
   proactive data driven decision making processes in the agri food supply
   chain . it also guides researchers , practitioners , and policymakers on
   successful management to increase the productivity and sustainability of
   agri food

---

UT 1628
AR Jijesh JJ, 2021, INT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMMUN COMPUT TECHNOL OPTIM TECH
   ICEECCOT - PROC, P802, DOI 10.1109/ICEECCOT52851.2021.9708031
TI Development of Food Tracking System Using Machine Learning
AU Jijesh JJ; Jinesh JJ; Bolla DR; Sruthi PV; Dileep MR; Keshavamurthy D
TC 4
SO INT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMMUN COMPUT TECHNOL OPTIM TECH ICEECCOT - PROC
PY 2021
AB the use of technology has played a vital role in the person s food intake ,
   its quality and calorie measurement . a successful framework will enhance
   better leaving of the individuals and allows individual to consume the food
   in a well optimized manner . a real time framework is developed to monitor
   eating pattern of the individuals during their food intake . food
   recognition and tracking is implemented using machine learning based on the
   support vector machines ( svm ) . when the food consumption among the people
   increases , the problem related to the food also increases . hence in this
   paper we introduce a food recognition system in which calories are measured
   along with the food detection . we create a dataset for both the food images
   and calories present in that food . food and calories detected are sent
   through the mail for the user
DE calorie measurement; scale invariant feature transform ( sift ); speeded up
   robust features ( surf ) renesas microcontroller; support vector machines (
   svm )
ID food supply; tracking ( position ); calorie measurement; food intake;
   invariant feature transforms; renesas; scale invariant feature transform;
   scale invariant features; speeded up robust feature renesas microcontroller;
   speeded up robust features; support vector machine; support vectors machine;
   support vector machines

---

UT 1629
AR Alahmari SS, 2022, IEEE ACCESS, V10, P130048, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3228701
TI Food State Recognition Using Deep Learning
AU Alahmari SS; Salem T
TC 32
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2022
AB automated food detection and recognition methods have been studied to
   enhance end user life . however , most existing research focused on food
   ingredient type recognition , with little work has been done for food
   ingredient state recognition . successful recognition of food ingredient
   state plays a significant role in handling the food ingredient by an
   intelligent system . in this work , we propose a new novel cascaded multi
   head approach based on deep learning to simultaneously recognize the state
   and type of food ingredients . we trained and evaluated the proposed
   approach on a benchmark dataset of food ingredient images with nine
   different food states and 18 food types . we compared the proposed approach
   with a non cascaded deep learning approach . the cascaded approach shows
   improvement in food ingredient state recognition with 87 % accuracy compared
   to 81 % using a non cascaded deep learning method . our proposed method
   broadly applies to various tasks where food ingredient state recognition is
   essential , such as feeding elderly and disabled people and automating food
   recognition and preparation
DE deep learning; densenet; features fusion; food recognition; food state
   recognition
ID assistive technology; deep learning; disabled persons; domestic appliances;
   feature extraction; image enhancement; image recognition; intelligent
   systems; state estimation; deep learning; densenet; features extraction;
   features fusions; food recognition; food state recognition; neural networks;
   state recognition; transfer learning; neural networks

---

UT 1630
AR Parbat T, 2022, INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT, V8,
   P1028
TI Diet Recommendation by Machine Learning
AU Parbat T; Jain H; Musale V
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT CONTROL TELECOMMUN TECHNOL ACT
PY 2022
AB we mean to use the new headway in innovation to foster dietary as evaluation
   arrangements which is a more advantageous way to deal with screen every day
   food admission and control dietary patterns . food , calorie and sustenance
   estimation framework is extremely useful for people groups to gage and deal
   with their every day food admission . ai will make proposals dependent on
   the things that are of client s advantage or loved by them before .
   additionally these calculations are utilized to suggest the food that the
   client might like . the suggested food and food in standard plans set by
   client s own circumstance are in a similar group , which meets the client s
   healthful equilibrium . we feature the issue of determination of legitimate
   eating regimen that should satisfy everybody s nourishing prerequisites
DE diet recommendation; machine learning
ID diet recommendation; dietary patterns; machine learning; machine learning

---

UT 1631
AR Chen J/2, 2021, IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS, V30, P1514, DOI
   10.1109/TIP.2020.3045639
TI A Study of Multi-Task and Region-Wise Deep Learning for Food Ingredient
   Recognition
AU Chen J/2; Zhu B; Ngo C-W; Chua T-S; Jiang Y-G
TC 98
SO IEEE TRANS IMAGE PROCESS
PY 2021
AB food recognition has captured numerous research attention for its importance
   for health related applications . the existing approaches mostly focus on
   the categorization of food according to dish names , while ignoring the
   underlying ingredient composition . in reality , two dishes with the same
   name do not necessarily share the exact list of ingredients . therefore ,
   the dishes under the same food category are not mandatorily equal in
   nutrition content . nevertheless , due to limited datasets available with
   ingredient labels , the problem of ingredient recognition is often
   overlooked . furthermore , as the number of ingredients is expected to be
   much less than the number of food categories , ingredient recognition is
   more tractable in the real world scenario . this paper provides an
   insightful analysis of three compelling issues in ingredient recognition .
   these issues involve recognition in either image level or region level ,
   pooling in either single or multiple image scales , learning in either
   single or multi task manner . the analysis is conducted on a large food
   dataset , vireo food 251 , contributed by this paper . the dataset is
   composed of 169,673 images with 251 popular chinese food and 406 ingredients
   . the dataset includes adequate challenges in scale and complexity to reveal
   the limit of the current approaches in ingredient recognition
DE chinese food; deep learning; food images; ingredient recognition
ID china; cooking; deep learning; food ingredients; humans; image processing
   computer-assisted; pattern recognition automated; large dataset; food
   ingredient; food ingredients; multiple image; real-world scenario; automated
   pattern recognition; china; classification; cooking; human; image
   processing; procedures; deep learning

---

UT 1632
AR Lam MB, 2020, IEEE ACCESS, V8, P88360, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2993053
TI Deep Learning-Based Food Quality Estimation Using Radio Frequency-Powered
   Sensor Mote
AU Lam MB; Nguyen T-H; Chung W-Y
TC 49
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2020
AB in the past decades , the emerging concern about food safety has led to the
   increasing demand for monitoring food quality across the world . aiming
   toward a novel solution for monitoring food , this study proposes a non
   destructive method with self powering capability for online food monitoring
   , which can be extendable to iot applications . furthermore , the study
   introduces a novel deep neural network model to predict different states of
   food quality based on the monitoring results . to monitor the variation in
   food quality , the paper proposes the detection of total volatile organic
   compounds ( tvocs ) inside the food packages , which have been released
   during food deterioration . a low power sensor mote comprised of a capacity
   humidity sensor and a metal oxide ( mox ) gas sensor was manufactured for
   this purpose . the self powering capability of the mote is provided through
   an energy harvester module , which benefits from the far field radio
   frequency energy harvesting ( rfeh ) technology . the operating frequency of
   the module was chosen at the 915-mhz ism band . the analysis of the
   harvester performance showed that the harvester could generate 3.3-v dc with
   an rf input power of as low as -8 dbm , which was sufficient for the mote
   operation . to verify the proposed solutions , a demonstration to monitor
   the deterioration of packaged pork and fish was conducted in eight days
   under ambient and refrigerated storage conditions , using the self developed
   rf powered sensor mote . the raw variations in tvocs were analyzed to
   evaluate the reliability of the proposed tvoc based method . a one
   dimensional ( 1-d ) convolutional neural network ( cnn ) model was trained
   on the tvocs dataset to predict different states of food quality . to
   investigate the applicability of the proposed 1-d cnn to multi class
   determination of food quality , two other supervised machine learning
   algorithms using 2-d inputs , including multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) , and
   support vector machine ( svm ) , are studied . their classification
   accuracies based on the confusion matrix are identified and compared
DE convolutional neural network ( cnn ); food quality prediction; multilayer
   perceptron ( mlp ); radio frequency energy harvesting; support vector
   machine ( svm ); total volatile organic compounds
ID convolutional neural networks; deep neural networks; deterioration; energy
   harvesting; food safety; frequency estimation; learning algorithms; metals;
   nondestructive examination; radio waves; sensor nodes; support vector
   machines; volatile organic compounds; classification accuracy; metal oxide
   gas-sensors; multilayer perceptron; nondestructive methods; online food
   monitoring; radio frequency energy harvesting; supervised machine learning;
   total volatile organic compounds; deep learning

---

UT 1633
AR Amin MD, 2021, FOOD POLIC, V99, DOI 10.1016/j.foodpol.2020.101985
TI Predicting access to healthful food retailers with machine learning
AU Amin MD; Badruddoza S; McCluskey JJ
TC 56
SO FOOD POLIC
PY 2021
AB many you . s . households lack access to healthful food and rely on
   inexpensive , processed food with low nutritional value . surveying access
   to healthful food is costly and finding the factors that affect access
   remains convoluted owing to the multidimensional nature of socioeconomic
   variables . we utilize machine learning with census tract data to predict
   the modified retail food environment index ( mrfei ) , which refers to the
   percentage of healthful food retailers in a tract and agnostically extract
   the features of no access corresponding to a ' food desert ' and low access
   corresponding to a ' food swamp . ' our model detects food deserts and food
   swamps with a prediction accuracy of 72 % out of the sample . we find that
   food deserts and food swamps are intrinsically different and require
   separate policy attention . food deserts are lightly populated rural tracts
   with low ethnic diversity , whereas swamps are predominantly small , densely
   populated , urban tracts , with more non white residents who lack vehicle
   access . overall access to healthful food retailers is mainly explained by
   population density , presence of black population , property value , and
   income . we also show that our model can be used to obtain sensible
   predictions of access to healthful food retailers for any you . s . census
   tract
DE food deserts; food swamps; machine learning
ID united states; food market; machine learning; nutritive value; prediction;
   public access; retailing

---

UT 1634
AR Tsoumakas G, 2019, ARTIF INTELL REV, V52, P441, DOI
   10.1007/s10462-018-9637-z
TI A survey of machine learning techniques for food sales prediction
AU Tsoumakas G
TC 114
SO ARTIF INTELL REV
PY 2019
AB food sales prediction is concerned with estimating future sales of companies
   in the food industry , such as supermarkets , groceries , restaurants ,
   bakeries and patisseries . accurate short term sales prediction allows
   companies to minimize stocked and expired products inside stores and at the
   same time avoid missing sales . this paper reviews existing machine learning
   approaches for food sales prediction . it discusses important design
   decisions of a data analyst working on food sales prediction , such as the
   temporal granularity of sales data , the input variables to use for
   predicting sales and the representation of the sales output variable . in
   addition , it reviews machine learning algorithms that have been applied to
   food sales prediction and appropriate measures for evaluating their accuracy
   . finally , it discusses the main challenges and opportunities for applied
   machine learning in the domain of food sales prediction
DE demand forecasting; food; machine learning; regression; sales prediction;
   time series forecasting
ID artificial intelligence; food products; forecasting; learning systems;
   sales; applied machine learning; demand forecasting; machine learning
   approaches; machine learning techniques; output variables; regression;
   temporal granularity; time series forecasting; learning algorithms

---

UT 1635
AR Peng Y, 2018, INT J COMMUN, V12, P313
TI Feast for the eyes: Effects of food perceptions and computer vision features
   on food photo popularity
AU Peng Y; Jemmott JB III
TC 51
SO INT J COMMUN
PY 2018
AB the widely circulated food photos online have become an important part of
   our visual culture . combining human ratings of food characteristics and
   computational analysis of visual esthetics , we examined what contributed to
   the esthetic appeal of a diversity of food photographs ( n = 300 ) and likes
   and comments they received in an artificial newsfeed from participants ( n =
   399 ) . the results revealed that people tended to like and share images
   containing tasty foods . both healthy and unhealthy foods were able to gain
   likes . esthetic appeal and specific visual features , such as the use of
   arousing colors and different components of visual complexity , also
   influenced the popularity of food images . this work demonstrates the
   potential of applying computer vision methods in visual analysis , offers
   insights into image virality , and provides practical guidelines for
   communicating healthy eating . 2018 ( yilang peng and john b . jemmott iii )
   .
DE computer vision; food; health communication; virality; visual esthetics

---

UT 1636
AR Sera T, 2020, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P33, DOI 10.1145/3391203.3391211
TI A case study of Food Production Using Artificial Intelligence
AU Sera T; Izukura S; Hashimoto I; Motegi T; Motohashi Y
TC 7
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2020
AB in these days , artificial intelligence ( ai ) finds applications in many
   different domains , including art creation such as painting and music .
   however , there is lack of know how involving ai in developing food products
   . in this case , we analyzed a large number of japanese newspaper articles
   and developed a chocolate that represents the mood of each year .
   specifically , the mood was expressed by predicting the taste of words by
   machine learning . this paper describes how to create software that converts
   human sensation into taste , and how people develop products based on it ,
   and how to evaluate the resulting product . in the result , we introduce a
   product developed with the support of artificial intelligence that has an
   effect of stimulating curiosity in consumers and can lead developers to new
   discoveries and perspectives . in the future , we aim to create a system
   that supports collaborative recipe development involving ai , developers ,
   and consumers
DE artificial intelligence; food production; recipe generation
ID food products; technology transfer; different domains; food production;
   human sensation; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1637
AR Di Vaio A, 2020, SUSTAIN, V12, DOI 10.3390/SU12124851
TI Artificial intelligence in the agri-food system: Rethinking sustainable
   business models in the COVID-19 scenario
AU Di Vaio A; Boccia F; Landriani L; Palladino R
TC 268
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2020
AB the aim of the paper is to investigate the artificial intelligence ( ai )
   function in agri food industry , as well as the role of stakeholders in its
   supply chain . above all , from the beginning of the new millennium ,
   scholars and practitioners have paid an increasing attention to artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) technologies in operational processes management and
   challenges for new business models , in a sustainable and socially
   responsible perspective . thus , the stakeholders can assume a proactive or
   marginal role in the value creation for business , according to their own
   environmental awareness . these issues appear still ' open ' in some
   industries , such as the agri food system , where the adoption of new
   technologies requires rethinking and redesigning the whole business model .
   methodologically , we brought forward an in depth review of the literature
   about major articles in this field . especially , the study has been
   conducted following two phases : firstly , we extracted from scientific
   databases ( web of science , scopus , and google scholar ) and studied
   relevant articles . secondly , we analyzed the selected articles . the
   findings highlight interesting issues about ai toward a ' space economy ' to
   achieve sustainable and responsible business models , also in the
   perspective of the covid 19 pandemic scenario . theoretical and managerial
   implications are discussed
DE environmental awareness; environmental space; literature review; space
   economy; stakeholder
ID scopus; artificial intelligence; business development; environmental
   assessment; farming system; numerical model; scenario analysis; stakeholder;
   supply chain management; sustainability; technology adoption

---

UT 1638
AR Daood A, 2022, AEST - INT CONF ADV ENG SCI TECHNOL, P727, DOI
   10.1109/AEST55805.2022.10412924
TI Food Classification using Deep Learning Techniques
AU Daood A
TC 0
SO AEST - INT CONF ADV ENG SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB image recognition of real world food plays an important role in the vast
   scope of applications . for example , food classification can estimate the
   gradients of any type of food to help diabetic and ill people to follow a
   healthy diet . therefore , researchers have proposed methods and algorithms
   to recognize different types of food . however , the recognition process is
   a very challenging task due to the unlimited variations within the captured
   images of different kinds of food . hence , we propose a new dataset which
   contains 20000 images of 15 different classes of local meals . a semi
   automatic method is presented to provide the data annotations . the
   collected images are used to propose detector and recognizer models . the
   trained detector provides a detection rate of 81 % . the train detector is
   designed by adopting yolo v3-tiny . additionally , the food classification
   process is performed based on two types of features : traditional features
   and learned ones . the results show the superiority of the deep learning
   features over the hand craft features . adopting the transfer learning
   techniques with the pre trained model of resnet50 achieves about 95 %
   accuracy of classification rate
DE computer vision; deep learning; food classification; object detection;
   object recognition
ID classification ( of information ); computer vision; deep learning; image
   recognition; learning algorithms; learning systems; object recognition; deep
   learning; different class; food classification; healthy diet; learning
   techniques; objects detection; objects recognition; real-world; recognition
   process; scope of application; object detection

---

UT 1639
AR Schroeder V, 2019, ACS SENSORS, V4, P2101, DOI 10.1021/acssensors.9b00825
TI Chemiresistive Sensor Array and Machine Learning Classification of Food
AU Schroeder V; Evans ED; Wu Y-CM; Voll C-CA; McDonald BR; Savagatrup S; Swager
   TM
TC 154
SO ACS SENSORS
PY 2019
AB successful identification of complex odors by sensor arrays remains a
   challenging problem . herein , we report robust , category specific
   multiclass time series classification using an array of 20 carbon nanotube
   based chemical sensors . we differentiate between samples of cheese , liquor
   , and edible oil based on their odor . in a two stage machine learning
   approach , we first obtain an optimal subset of sensors specific to each
   category and then validate this subset using an independent and expanded
   data set . we determined the optimal selectors via independent selector
   classification accuracy , as well as a combinatorial scan of all 4845
   possible four selector combinations . we performed sample classification
   using two models a k nearest neighbors model and a random forest model
   trained on extracted features . this protocol led to high classification
   accuracy in the independent test sets for five cheese and five liquor
   samples ( accuracies of 91 % and 78 % , respectively ) and only a slightly
   lower ( 73 % ) accuracy on a five edible oil data set . 2019 american
   chemical society .
DE authentication; carbon nanotubes; chemical sensor; electronic nose; feature
   selection; nearest neighbors; sensor array; time series classification
ID biosensing techniques; electrochemical techniques; humans; machine learning;
   odorants; plant oils; authentication; carbon nanotubes; chemical sensors;
   decision trees; electronic nose; feature extraction; machine learning;
   nearest neighbor search; oils and fats; sensor arrays; statistical tests;
   time series; fragrance; vegetable oil; chemiresistive sensors;
   classification accuracy; machine learning approaches; machine learning
   classification; nearest neighbors; random forest modeling; sample
   classification; time series classifications; electrochemical analysis;
   genetic procedures; human; machine learning; classification ( of information
   )

---

UT 1640
AR Takruri M, 2020, IEEE ACCESS, V8, P150282, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3016904
TI DoFP-ML: A Machine Learning Approach to Food Quality Monitoring Using a DoFP
   Polarization Image Sensor
AU Takruri M; Abubakar A; Alnaqbi N; Shehhi HA; Jallad A-HM; Bermak A
TC 22
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2020
AB good nutrition is an important part of leading a healthy lifestyle . this
   has brought into stark focus the need for efficient and low cost methods for
   large scale food quality assessment . this article proposes a non invasive
   and non destructive system for estimating the freshness of apples using
   polarization images from a division of focal plane ( dofp ) polarization
   camera . the proposed system uses machine learning systems namely , support
   vector regression ( svr ) and gaussian process regression ( gpr ) , to
   estimate the age of apples and determine if they are fit for consumption
   even before the external rot appears on the fruit . initially , the
   reconstructed images namely , degree of linear polarization ( dolp ) and
   angle of polarization ( aop ) , are generated from the polarization image
   and their respective correlations with the actual age of apples ( in days )
   are established . these reconstructed images are then fed as input features
   to the machine learning systems to ultimately estimate the age of the apples
   . experiments on real data obtained from the dofp camera show that the
   proposed system is non destructive and capable of non invasively estimating
   the age of the apple with an average accuracy of up to 92.57 %
DE division of focal plane; food quality monitoring; machine learning;
   polarization image
ID cameras; fruits; machine learning; polarization; support vector regression;
   turing machines; angle of polarization; degree of linear polarization;
   gaussian process regression; healthy lifestyles; machine learning
   approaches; polarization images; reconstructed image; support vector
   regression ( svr ); image reconstruction

---

UT 1641
AR Banerjee S, 2021, ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON, DOI
   10.1109/ASIANCON51346.2021.9545014
TI Nutrient Food Prediction through Deep Learning
AU Banerjee S; Mondal AC
TC 11
SO ASIAN CONF INNOV TECHNOL ASIANCON
PY 2021
AB the lifespan of a man can be sustained only with adequate nourishment . to
   lead a productive , healthy life , human needs nutritious food . in this
   pandemic covid 19 situation humans need more nutritious food for combating
   infectious disease along with a strong immune system in our body .
   nutritious foods recognition is one of the major tasks for a customer . in
   large stores plenty of agricultural products are stored , then there needs a
   classification for separating normal food and nutritious food . the real
   time decision will alert the consumer by predicting nutritious foods . by
   the use of deep learning , it may be possible to classify nutritious food
   along with their nutrient content and give the possible particular rating
   view image through the deep learning method . enormous development in deep
   learning is possible due to the advancement of the convolutional neural
   network ( cnn ) algorithms . cnn is a modern technique inspired by
   biological neurons mainly used for image processing and data analysis ,
   producing encouraging results . the principal objective of our work is to
   detect and segregate normal food and nutritious food . this is accomplished
   using the combination of both nutrition and image classification techniques
   . hence , the proposed system achieved average overall accuracy is more than
   91 %
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food nutrient
ID agricultural products; convolution; convolutional neural networks; data
   handling; deep learning; image processing; nutrition; processing;
   convolutional neural network; deep learning; food nutrient; human needs;
   infectious disease; learning methods; lifespans; neural networks algorithms;
   nutrient contents; real time decisions; nutrients

---

UT 1642
AR Galanis N-I, 2022, PROC - IEEE WORLD CONF APPL INTELL COMPUT AIC, P739, DOI
   10.1109/AIC55036.2022.9848929
TI An update on cooking recipe generation with Machine Learning and Natural
   Language Processing
AU Galanis N-I; Papakostas GA
TC 8
SO PROC - IEEE WORLD CONF APPL INTELL COMPUT AIC
PY 2022
AB cooking is a part of most peoples daily routine . yet there is always the
   same question : what are we going to cook today ? . we will attempt to
   create a roundup of machine learning approaches whose goal is to provide an
   answer to that question with recipe generation by using as input just a list
   of preferred ingredients or even generating them as well ! 2022 ieee .
DE case based reasoning; cooking; machine learning; natural language
   processing; nlp; recipe generation
ID case based reasoning; cooking; learning algorithms; machine learning; case
   based reasonings ( cbr ); cooking; cooking recipe; daily routines; language
   processing; learning languages; machine learning; natural language
   processing; natural languages; recipe generation; natural language
   processing systems

---

UT 1643
AR Monteiro J, 2021, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V192, P3020, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2021.09.074
TI Artificial intelligence in extended agri-food supply chain: A short review
   based on bibliometric analysis
AU Monteiro J; Barata J
TC 66
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2021
AB climate change and population growth are triggering a digital transformation
   in agriculture . consequently , agri food supply chains are becoming more
   intelligent , producing vast amounts of data and pushing the boundaries of
   the traditional food lifecycle . however , artificial intelligence ( ai )
   for the extended agri food supply chain is only beginning to emerge . this
   paper presents a short literature review of eighteen papers on the
   intelligent agri food supply chain . the bibliometric analysis reveals key
   research clusters and current trends in the ai enabled stages of food
   production , distribution , and sustainable consumption . the important
   advances of ai in traditional stages of production need to be expanded with
   intelligent planning for demand uncertainty and personalized needs of end
   customers , storage optimization , waste reduction in the post production
   phase ( e . g . , distribution and recycling ) , and boundary spanning
   analytics . for theory , this work highlights mature areas for ai adoption
   in agri food and identifies opportunities for future research in the
   extended agri food supply chain . for practice , the review findings can
   inspire startups interested in extended agri food ecosystems and incumbents
   in their pilot projects for the intelligent and sustainable digital
   transformation of agri food . ai techniques can contribute to close the loop
   of sustainable agri food supply chains
DE agriculture 40; artificial intelligence; extended agri-food supply chain;
   state of the art
ID agricultural robots; artificial intelligence; climate change; digital
   storage; food supply; life cycle; population statistics; supply chains;
   current; agri-food supply chains; agriculture 40; bibliometrics analysis;
   digital transformation; extended agri-food supply chain; literature reviews;
   population growth; state of the art; traditional food; agriculture

---

UT 1644
AR Kakani V, 2020, J AGRIC FOOD RES, V2, DOI 10.1016/j.jafr.2020.100033
TI A critical review on computer vision and artificial intelligence in food
   industry
AU Kakani V; Nguyen VH; Kumar BP; Kim H; Pasupuleti VR
TC 468
SO J AGRIC FOOD RES
PY 2020
AB emerging technologies such as computer vision and artificial intelligence (
   ai ) are estimated to leverage the accessibility of big data for active
   training and yielding operational real time smart machines and predictable
   models . this phenomenon of applying vision and learning methods for the
   improvement of food industry is termed as computer vision and ai driven food
   industry . this review contributes to provide an insight into state of the
   art ai and computer vision technologies that can assist farmers in
   agriculture and food processing . this paper investigates various scenarios
   and use cases of machine learning , machine vision and deep learning in
   global perspective with the lens of sustainability . it explains the
   increasing demand toward the agtech industry using computer vision and ai
   which might be a path toward sustainable food production to feed the future
   . also , this review tosses some implications regarding challenges and
   recommendations in inclusion of technologies in real time farming ,
   substantial global policies and investments . finally , the paper discusses
   the possibility of using fourth industrial revolution [ 4.0 ir ]
   technologies such as deep learning and computer vision robotics as a key for
   sustainable food production
DE artificial intelligence; autonomous navigation; computer vision; sustainable
   food supply

---

UT 1645
AR Yamabe T, 2022, PROC INT CONF ARTIF LIFE ROBOT, P339
TI Training Data Augmentation for Semantic Segmentation of Food Images Using
   Deep Learning
AU Yamabe T; Ishichi T; Tsuji T; Hiramitsu T; Seki H
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF ARTIF LIFE ROBOT
PY 2022
AB we propose a training data generation method for semantic segmentation of
   food ingredients . training data for semantic segmentation requires a large
   amount of effort for a human to carefully paint the boundaries of objects .
   therefore , we propose a method to automatically augment appropriate
   training data by adding image composition processes for images of only one
   type of food . in our experiments , we confirmed the effectiveness of each
   data augmentation . the 2022 international conference on artificial life and
   robotics ( icarob2022 ) .
DE data augmentation; deep learning; food recognition; semantic segmentation

---

UT 1646
AR Lemanzyk T, 2015, J PHYS CONF SER, V588, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/588/1/012036
TI Food safety by using machine learning for automatic classification of seeds
   of the South-American incanut plant
AU Lemanzyk T; Anding K; Linss G; Hernández JR; Theska R
TC 3
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2015
AB the following paper deals with the classification of seeds and seed
   components of the south american incanut plant and the modification of a
   machine to handle this task . initially the state of the art is being
   illustrated . the research was executed in germany and with a relevant part
   in peru and ecuador . theoretical considerations for the solution of an
   automatically analysis of the incanut seeds were specified . the
   optimization of the analyzing software and the separation unit of the
   mechanical hardware are carried out with recognition results . in a final
   step the practical application of the analysis of the incanut seeds is held
   on a trial basis and rated on the bases of statistic values
ID artificial intelligence; learning systems; machine components; automatic
   classification; ecuador; separation units; state of the art; seed

---

UT 1647
AR Oldroyd RA, 2021, INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL, V18, DOI
   10.3390/ijerph182312635
TI Predicting food safety compliance for informed food outlet inspections: A
   machine learning approach
AU Oldroyd RA; Morris MA; Birkin M
TC 18
SO INT J ENV RES PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2021
AB consumer food environments have transformed dramatically in the last decade
   . food outlet prevalence has increased , and people are eating food outside
   the home more than ever before . despite these developments , national
   spending on food control has reduced . the national audit office report that
   only 14 % of local authorities are up to date with food business inspections
   , exposing consumers to unknown levels of risk . given the scarcity of local
   authority resources , this paper presents a data driven approach to predict
   compliance for newly opened businesses and those awaiting repeat inspections
   . this work capitalizes on the theory that food outlet compliance is a
   function of its geographic context , namely the characteristics of the
   neighborhood within which it sits . we explore the utility of three machine
   learning approaches to predict non compliant food outlets in england and
   wales using openly accessible socio demographic , business type , and
   urbanness features at the output area level . we find that the synthetic
   minority oversampling technique alongside a random forest algorithm with a
   1:1 sampling strategy provides the best predictive power . our final model
   retrieves and identifies 84 % of total non compliant outlets in a test set
   of 92,595 ( sensitivity = 0.843 , specificity = 0.745 , precision = 0.274 )
   . the originality of this work lies in its unique and methodological
   approach which combines the use of machine learning with fine grained
   neighborhood data to make robust predictions of compliance
DE food environments; food hygiene; food safety; machine learning
ID commerce; food; food safety; humans; machine learning; residence
   characteristics; england; united kingdom; wales; algorithm; compliance; food
   safety; hygiene; machine learning; prediction; article; consumer;
   demography; england; food safety; human; hygiene; neighborhood; prediction;
   random forest; sensitivity and specificity; wales; commercial phenomena;
   food; machine learning

---

UT 1648
AR Khan R, 2021, J FOOD CHEM NANOTECHNOL, V7, P60, DOI 10.17756/jfcn.2021-114
TI Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Food Industries: A Study
AU Khan R
TC 27
SO J FOOD CHEM NANOTECHNOL
PY 2021
AB the excessive widespread in the use of artificial intelligence ( ai ) is
   quietly lessening interactive communication between humans , and rapidly
   turning the world automotive . these advancements are inclined toward rapid
   mass production and accurate yet systematic supply chain and deliveries to
   please every end customer , because their satisfaction provides numerous
   reasons why a particular industry should run and lead the global market .
   robot and data processing mechanisms are some of the best known leading high
   end technologies that use artificial intelligence ( ai ) and machine
   learning ( ml ) for manufacturing , processing , and delivering qualitative
   and quantitative products with minimal cost , labor , and time consumption .
   today , even start ups or small businesses such as cafes , fast food centers
   , restaurants , etc . are making use of these technologies to start out of
   the crowd and grow their business rapidly . 2021 khan .
DE artificial intelligence; food cost; food industry; food quality; machine
   learning

---

UT 1649
AR Farooq M, 2017, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V10208 LNCS, P464, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-56148-6_41
TI Feature extraction using deep learning for food type recognition
AU Farooq M; Sazonov E
TC 36
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2017
AB with the widespread use of smartphones , people are taking more and more
   images of their foods . these images can be used for automatic recognition
   of foods present and potentially providing an indication of eating habits .
   traditional methods rely on computing a number of user derived features from
   image and then use a classification method to classify food images into
   different food categories . pertained deep neural network architectures can
   be used for automatically extracting features from images for different
   classification tasks . this work proposes the use of convolutional neural
   networks ( cnn ) for feature extraction from food images . a linear support
   vector machine classifier was trained using 3-fold cross validation scheme
   on a publically available pittsburgh fast food image dataset . features from
   3 different fully connected layers of cnn were used for classification . two
   classification tasks were defined . the first task was to classify images
   into 61 categories and the second task was to classify images into 7
   categories . best results were obtained using 4096 features with an accuracy
   of 70.13 % and 94.01 % for 61 class and 7 class tasks respectively . this
   shows improvement over previously reported results on the same dataset
DE classification; deep learning; food recognition; image recognition; transfer
   learning
ID bioinformatics; biomedical engineering; classification ( of information );
   deep learning; deep neural networks; extraction; feature extraction; image
   processing; image recognition; network architecture; neural networks;
   automatic recognition; classification methods; classification tasks;
   convolutional neural network; derived features; extracting features; linear
   support vector machines; transfer learning; image classification

---

UT 1650
AR De Bonis M, 2019, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V833, P303, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-98678-4_31
TI Deep learning techniques for visual food recognition on a mobile app
AU De Bonis M; Amato G; Falchi F; Gennaro C; Manghi P
TC 5
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2019
AB the paper provides an efficient solution to implement a mobile application
   for food recognition using convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) .
   different cnns architectures have been trained and tested on two datasets
   available in literature and the best one in terms of accuracy has been
   chosen . since our cnn runs on a mobile phone , efficiency measurements have
   also taken into account both in terms of memory and computational
   requirements . the mobile application has been implemented relying on
   renderscript and the weights of every layer have been serialized in
   different files stored in the mobile phone memory . extensive experiments
   have been carried out to choose the optimal configuration and tuning
   parameters
DE android app; convolutional neural network; food recognition
ID cellular telephones; convolution; information systems; information use;
   mobile computing; mobile phones; neural networks; telephone sets;
   computational requirements; convolutional neural network; efficiency
   measurement; food recognition; learning techniques; mobile app; mobile
   applications; tuning parameter; deep learning

---

UT 1651
AR Salehian H, 2017, PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN, VPart
   F129685, P2001, DOI 10.1145/3097983.3098125
TI Matching restaurant menus to crowdsourced food data a scalable machine
   learning approach
AU Salehian H; Howell P; Lee C/1
TC 7
SO PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN
PY 2017
AB we study the problem of how to match a formally structured restaurant menu
   item to a large database of less structured food items that has been
   collected via crowd sourcing . at first glance , this problem scenario looks
   like a typical text matching problem that might possibly be solved with
   existing text similarity learning approaches . however , due to the unique
   nature of our scenario and the need for scalability , our problem imposes
   certain restrictions on possible machine learning approaches that we can
   employ . we propose a novel , practical , and scalable machine learning
   solution architecture , consisting of two major steps . first we use a query
   generation approach , based on a markov decision process algorithm , to
   reduce the time complexity of searching for matching candidates . that is
   then followed by a re ranking step , using deep learning techniques , to
   meet our required matching quality goals . it is important to note that our
   proposed solution architecture has already been deployed in a real
   application system serving tens of millions of users , and shows great
   potential for practical cases of user entered text to structured text
   matching , especially when scalability is crucial
DE convolutional neural networks; markov decision process; nutrition
   estimation; short text matching
ID artificial intelligence; data mining; learning algorithms; markov processes;
   network architecture; neural networks; query processing; scalability;
   convolutional neural network; learning techniques; machine learning
   approaches; markov decision processes; real applications; scalable machine
   learning; short texts; solution architectures; learning systems

---

UT 1652
AR Fracarolli JA, 2020, REV CIENC AGRON, V51, P1, DOI
   10.5935/1806-6690.20200087
TI Computer vision applied to food and agricultural products; [Visão
   computacional aplicada a alimentos e produtos agrícolas]
AU Fracarolli JA; Adimari Pavarin FF; Castro W; Blasco J
TC 46
SO REV CIENC AGRON
PY 2020
AB computer vision ( cv ) has been applied for years to automate many human
   activities . it is one of the key technologies for the modernization of the
   agri food industry toward the fourth industrial revolution ( industry 4.0 )
   . in the agricultural sector , cv systems are applied to automate or obtain
   information from many agricultural tasks such as planting , cultivation ,
   farm management , disease control , weed control or robotic harvesting . it
   is also widely used in postharvest to automate and obtain objective
   information in processes such as quality control and evaluation , damage
   detection , classification of fruits or vegetables in commercial categories
   or composition analysis . one of the main advantages is the ability of this
   technology to obtain information in regions of the spectrum that are
   invisible to the human eye . an example is the case of hyperspectral imaging
   systems . these systems generate a large amount of data that needs to be
   processed efficiently , creating robust and repeatable statistical models
   that allow the technology to be implemented at an industrial level . to
   achieve this , it is necessary to couple cv systems with advanced artificial
   intelligence tools such as machine learning or deep learning . the objective
   of this work is to review the latest advances in cv systems applied to food
   and agricultural products and processes
DE agriculture 40; artificial intelligence; digital images; machine learning;
   machine vision

---

UT 1653
AR [Anonymous], 2022, A+BE, V10, P229
TI Optimising High-Rise Buildings for Self-Sufficiency in Energy Consumption
   and Food Production Using Artificial Intelligence
TC 0
SO A+BE
PY 2022
AB the increase in global population , which negatively affects energy
   consumption , co2 emissions , and arable land , necessitates designing
   sustainable habitation alternatives . self sufficient high rise buildings ,
   which integrate ( electricity ) generation and efficient usage of resources
   with dense habitation , can be a sustainable solution for future
   urbanization . this paper focuses on transforming europoint towers in
   rotterdam into self sufficient buildings considering energy consumption and
   food production ( lettuce crops ) using artificial intelligence . design
   parameters consist of the number of farming floors , shape , and the
   properties of the proposed facade skin that includes shading devices . nine
   thousand samples are collected from various floor levels to predict self
   sufficiency criteria using artificial neural networks ( ann ) . optimization
   problems with 117 decision variables are formulated using 45 ann models that
   have very high prediction accuracies . 13 optimization algorithms are used
   for an in detail investigation of self sufficiency at the building scale ,
   and potential sufficiency at the neighborhood scale . results indicate that
   100 % and 43.7 % self sufficiencies could be reached for lettuce crops and
   electricity , respectively , for three buildings with 1800 residents . at
   the neighborhood scale , lettuce production could be sufficient for 27,000
   people , with a decrease of self sufficiency in terms of energy use of up to
   11.6 % . consequently , this paper discusses the potentials and the
   improvements for self sufficient high rise buildings . 2022 tu delft
DE artificial intelligence; bipv; building performance simulation;
   computational optimization; energy consumption; machine learning;
   metropolis; self-sufficiency; vertical farming

---

UT 1654
AR Martinez-Mayorga K, 2014, FOODINFO APPLIC CHEM FOOD CHEM, V9783319102269,
   P1, DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-10226-9
TI Foodinformatics: Applications of chemical information to food chemistry
AU Martinez-Mayorga K; Medina-Franco JL
TC 23
SO FOODINFO APPLIC CHEM FOOD CHEM
PY 2014
AB the explosion in the generation of information parallels the explosion of
   computational resources . the use of computers to collect , store and
   manipulate chemical information is at the heart of chemoinformatics . these
   methodologies , whose main target thus far has been the pharmaceutical field
   , are general and can be applied to other types of chemical data sets , such
   as those containing food chemicals . while the use of chemical information
   methodologies to address food related challenges is still in its infancy ,
   interest is growing and will continue to do so as the methods prove useful ,
   particularly for providing practical solutions to food industry challenges .
   foodinformatics gives an overview of basic concepts , applications , tools
   and perspectives of the emerging field of foodinformatics . the book is an
   important addition to the literature and will be of interest of food
   chemists , nutritionists , informaticians and scientists of related fields .
   2014 springer international publishing switzerland . all rights are reserved
   .
ID indicators ( chemical ); chemical dataset; chemical information;
   chemoinformatics; computational resources; food chemistry; food industries;
   pharmaceutical fields; practical solutions; chemical contamination

---

UT 1655
AR Singh M, 2019, IR SIGNALS SYST CONF ISSC, DOI 10.1109/ISSC.2019.8904924
TI Comparison of machine learning models in food authentication studies
AU Singh M; Domijan K
TC 14
SO IR SIGNALS SYST CONF ISSC
PY 2019
AB the underlying objective of food authentication studies is to determine
   whether unknown food samples have been correctly labeled . in this paper ,
   we study three near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopic datasets from food
   samples of different types : meat samples ( labeled by species ) , olive oil
   samples ( labeled by their geographic origin ) and honey samples ( labeled
   as pure or adulterated by different adulterants ) . we apply and compare a
   large number of classification , dimension reduction and variable selection
   approaches to these datasets . nir data pose specific challenges to
   classification and variable selection : the datasets are high dimensional
   where the number of cases ( n ) < < \ \mathbf { number } of features ( p )
   and the recorded features are highly serially correlated . in this paper ,
   we carry out a comparative analysis of different approaches and find that
   partial least squares , a classic tool employed for these types of data ,
   outperforms all the other approaches considered
DE dimension reduction; feature selection; genetic algorithm ( ga ); linear
   discriminant analysis ( lda ); marginal relevance ( mr ); principal
   component analysis ( pca ); quadratic discriminant analysis ( qda ); random
   forest ( rf ); support vector machine ( svm )
ID authentication; decision trees; discriminant analysis; feature extraction;
   genetic algorithms; infrared devices; large dataset; least squares
   approximations; machine learning; olive oil; support vector machines;
   dimension reduction; linear discriminant analysis; marginal relevance ( mr
   ); quadratic discriminant analysis; random forests; principal component
   analysis

---

UT 1656
AR Anderez DO, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P580, DOI 10.1145/3316782.3322784
TI Temporal convolution neural network for food and drink intake recognition
AU Anderez DO; Lotfi A; Pourabdollah A
TC 7
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB eating difficulties are a prevalent issue within the elderly population ,
   leading to weight loss and malnutrition . likewise a poor diet is considered
   a confounding factor for developing chronic diseases and functional
   limitations . given the above issues , alongside the current advances in
   computational intelligence achieved with the use convolutional neural
   networks ( cnns ) , this paper proposes a wrist worn tri axial accelerometer
   based food and drink intake monitoring system by combining an adaptive
   segmentation technique and a cnn model using 1-dimensional ( 1d ) temporal
   convolutions . first , potential eating or drinking gestures are identified
   by the use of the adaptive segmentation technique . once identified , the
   resultant gesture set is used to train the network for the recognition of
   four commonly occurring dietary gestures ( drinking , using a spoon , using
   a fork and using the hand to take a bite ) . the problem is tackled as a
   5-class classification model where the remaining class is composed by all
   the irrelevant gestures . the results reported , with an average per class
   classification accuracy of 97.15 % , suggest the system proposed is a viable
   solution for food and drink intake monitoring as well as a great
   contribution to the field of pervasive computing in support of independent
   living
DE ambient assisted living; convolutional neural networks; gesture recognition;
   human activity recognition
ID assisted living; convolution; convolutional neural networks; intelligent
   computing; ubiquitous computing; adaptive segmentation; ambient assisted
   living; classification accuracy; classification models; convolution neural
   network; elderly populations; human activity recognition; triaxial
   accelerometer; gesture recognition

---

UT 1657
AR Rodríguez-Entrena M, 2016, J SCI FOOD AGRIC, V96, P1548, DOI
   10.1002/jsfa.7247
TI An assessment of the barriers to the consumers' uptake of genetically
   modified foods: A neural network analysis
AU Rodríguez-Entrena M; Salazar-Ordóñez M; Becerra-Alonso D
TC 13
SO J SCI FOOD AGRIC
PY 2016
AB background : this paper studies which of the attitudinal , cognitive and
   socio economic factors determine the willingness to purchase genetically
   modified ( gm ) food , enabling the forecasting of consumers behavior in
   andalusia , southern spain . this classification has been made by a standard
   multilayer perceptron neural network trained with extreme learning machine .
   later , an ordered logistic regression was applied to determine whether the
   neural network can outperform this traditional econometric approach .
   results : the results show that the highest relative contributions lie in
   the variables related to perceived risks of gm food , while the perceived
   benefits have a lower influence . in addition , an innovative attitude
   toward food presents a strong link , as does the perception of food safety .
   the variables with the least relative contribution are subjective knowledge
   about gm food and the consumers age . the neural network approach
   outperforms the correct classification percentage from the ordered logistic
   regression . conclusion : the perceived risks must be considered as a
   critical factor . a strategy to improve the gm food acceptance is to develop
   a transparent and balanced information framework that makes the potential
   risk understandable by society , and make them aware of the risk assessments
   for gm food in the eu . for its success , it is essential to improve the
   trust in eu institutions and scientific regulatory authorities . 2015
   society of chemical industry .
DE consumer behavior; genetically modified food; neural network; ordered
   logistic regression
ID adolescent; adult; aged; consumer behavior; female; food safety; food
   genetically modified; health knowledge attitudes practice; humans; male;
   middle aged; neural networks ( computer ); perception; risk assessment;
   socioeconomic factors; spain; adolescent; adult; aged; artificial neural
   network; attitude to health; consumer attitude; female; food safety;
   genetically modified food; human; male; middle aged; perception; risk
   assessment; socio-economics; spain

---

UT 1658
AR Gite S, 2021, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V203 LNNS, P511, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-16-0733-2_36
TI Sentiment Analysis Techniques on Food Reviews Using Machine Learning
AU Gite S; Udanshiv A; Date R; Jaisinghani K; Singh A/4; Chetwani P
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2021
AB review or opinion is a text which expresses the user s thought and response
   to the product or service he / she has availed or purchased . processing
   this input and getting to know whether these sentiments are positive ,
   negative , or neutral is called sentiment analysis . the reviews are then
   used by data analysts to perform evaluations about the product / service .
   we classify these sentiments in three principal types positive , negative ,
   and neutral . amazon food reviews dataset would be used to train the
   classifier . zomato , being the most popular food delivery site and
   restaurant aggregator provides information , menus , and user reviews of
   restaurants . python language is used to conduct research on a carefully
   chosen data and apply a classification algorithm on it
DE amazon fine food reviews; classification techniques; future scope;
   literature review; sentiment analysis

---

UT 1659
AR Sahin I, 2021, SIU - IEEE CONF SIGNAL PROCESS COMMUN APPL PROC, DOI
   10.1109/SIU53274.2021.9477954
TI Diet application that can recognize Turkish foods with deep learning; [Derin
   öǧrenme ile Türk yemeklerini taniyabilen diyet uygulamasi]
AU Sahin I; Tasel B; Guvensan MA
TC 1
SO SIU - IEEE CONF SIGNAL PROCESS COMMUN APPL PROC
PY 2021
AB the problem of manually entering the meals one by one , which is one of the
   main problems in many traditional diet applications , was solved with the
   help of the proposed deep learning models integrated into the mobile
   application . two different models resulting from the deep learning study
   were used in the application . the first model detects the food in the
   environment with real time object detection and the second one recognizes
   the type of the food in the detected plate . a data set containing 102
   different types of food belonging to turkish cuisine and approximately 500
   photographs of each type of food was collected and used in the training of
   the second model . the proposed turkishfoodnet network with the number of
   three , five , seven , nine , eleven and thirteen layers were examined in
   the training of both models . apart from this network , training operation
   were also held with tensorflow lite image classifier and mobilnetv2 .
   according to the test results , tensorflow lite image classifier and
   turkishfoodnet_l11 gives the highest accuracy for both detecting food and
   recognizing the type of food with an accuracy of 93 % and 84 % ,
   respectively
DE deep learning; food recognition; mobile application; real time object
   detection; turkish food dataset
ID image classification; learning systems; object detection; dataset; image
   classifiers; learning models; learning studies; mobile applications; real
   time; training operations; turkishs; deep learning

---

UT 1660
AR Rojas C, 2019, J FOOD SCI, V84, P770, DOI 10.1111/1750-3841.14477
TI Foodinformatics: Quantitative Structure-Property Relationship Modeling of
   Volatile Organic Compounds in Peppers
AU Rojas C; Duchowicz PR; Castro EA
TC 11
SO J FOOD SCI
PY 2019
AB abstract : the aim of this work was the foodinformatic ( chemoinformatic )
   modeling of volatile organic compounds ( vocs ) of different samples of
   peppers based on a quantitative structure property relationship ( qspr ) for
   the retention indices of 273 identified compounds . the experimental
   retention indices were measured by means of comprehensive two dimensional
   gas chromatography combined with quadrupole mass spectrometry ( gc gc / qms
   ) using the bpx5 and bp20 column coupled system . all the vocs were
   represented by means of both conformation independent molecular descriptors
   and molecular fingerprints calculated in the dragon and padel descriptor
   software . the dataset was divided into training , validation and test sets
   of molecules according to the balanced subsets method ( bsm ) . subsequently
   , the v wsp unsupervised variable reduction method was used to reduce the
   presence of multicollinearity , redundancy , and noise in the initial pool
   of 4,336 molecular descriptors and fingerprints . using this method , a
   reduced pool of 1,664 was submitted to the supervised selection by means of
   the replacement method ( rm ) variable subset selection in order to define a
   four descriptor model . the quality of the model was measured by means of
   the coefficient of determination and the root mean square deviation in
   fitting ( are 2 train = 0.879 and rmsd train = 72.1 ) , validation ( are 2
   val = 0.832 and rmsd val = 91.7 ) , and prediction ( are 2 test = 0.915 and
   rmsd test = 55.4 ) . the negligible differences among the parameters in the
   three sets indicate a stable and predictive qspr model . this quantitative
   structure activity relationship was developed keeping in mind the five
   principles defined by the organization for economic co operation and
   development ( oecd ) to make it applicable . practical application : this
   predictive mathematical model developed from the retention indices of 273
   volatile organic compounds ( vocs ) detected in pepper samples could be
   useful for chromatographers working on the identification of other common
   vocs in peppers or other foods by means of comprehensive two dimensional gas
   chromatography combined with quadrupole mass spectrometry ( gc gc / qms )
   using a bi dimensional stationary phase coupled system ( bpx5 and bp20 ) .
   2019 institute of food technologists
DE chemoinformatics; food informatics; peppers; qspr; vocs
ID capsicum; gas chromatography-mass spectrometry; quantitative structure-
   activity relationship; volatile organic compounds; volatile organic
   compound; chemistry; mass fragmentography; pepper; quantitative structure-
   activity relation

---

UT 1661
AR Koskina A, 2021, EUR FOOD FEED LAW REV, V16, P10
TI Artificial intelligence, 3D printing and food management
AU Koskina A; Galinas K
TC 1
SO EUR FOOD FEED LAW REV
PY 2021
AB the recent developments in advanced technologies and artificial intelligence
   confronted governments with unprecedented challenges and dilemmas , such as
   in the field of food pro duction . the use of 3d food printers optimized by
   ai will undoubtedly allow producing bet ter quality foods , and for larger
   sections of the population , but this is not without risks . fo cus should
   be on creating rules that treat people not only as consumers but as the core
   of their interest , while ai should be seen not as an end in itself but as a
   means of improving the quality of food and life . the proportional
   application of european union rules on novel foods and on ai can only be
   seen as an ancillary tool or as a necessary transitional stage . the
   adoption of rules ensuring the protection of food consumers , individually
   or as a soci ety , from these new types of food production [ even in the
   case of combined use of ai and 3d printing ] remains a challenge . 2021 ,
   lexxion verlagsgesellschaft mbh

---

UT 1662
AR Wang Z/6, 2022, LECT NOTES DATA ENG COMMUN TECH, V138, P718, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-05484-6_91
TI Optimization of Food System Based on Neural Network and Grey Prediction
AU Wang Z/6; Ni C; Xu Y/4; Zhang L/4
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES DATA ENG COMMUN TECH
PY 2022
AB in order to optimize the global food system , the economy and resources can
   develop for a long time on the basis of solving people s food security
   problems . this paper uses the topsis comprehensive evaluation method ,
   establishes a neural network training model and combines gray predictions to
   analyze the impact of changing the priority of the food system on countries
   with different backgrounds . the study of this issue can provide guiding
   opinions for the improvement of the food system , and is of positive
   significance to the global economic and ecological development
DE bp neural network; gray prediction; topsis rating
ID economics; food supply; forecasting; system theory; bp neural networks;
   comprehensive evaluation; evaluation methods; food security; food system;
   gray prediction; neural network predictions; optimizations; security
   problems; topsis rating; neural networks

---

UT 1663
AR Huang Z, 2022, ADV COLLOID INTERFACE SCI, V304, DOI
   10.1016/j.cis.2022.102663
TI Deep learning in food science: An insight in evaluating Pickering emulsion
   properties by droplets classification and quantification via object
   detection algorithm
AU Huang Z; Ni Y; Yu Q; Li J/2; Fan L; Eskin NAM
TC 18
SO ADV COLLOID INTERFACE SCI
PY 2022
AB understanding the complicated emulsion microstructures by microscopic images
   will help to further elaborate their mechanisms and relevance . the
   formidable goal of the classification and quantification of emulsion
   microstructure appears difficult to achieve . however , object detection
   algorithm in deep learning makes it feasible . this paper reports a new
   technique for evaluating pickering emulsion properties through
   classification and quantification of the emulsion microstructure by object
   detection algorithm . the trained neural network models characterize the
   emulsion droplets by distinguishing between different individual emulsion
   droplets and morphological mechanisms from numerous microscopic images . the
   quantified results of the emulsion droplets presented in this study ,
   provide details of statistical changes at different concentrations of the
   pickering interface and storage temperatures enabling elucidation of the
   mechanisms involved . this methodology provides a new quantitative and
   statistical analysis of emulsion microstructure and properties
DE characterization; deep learning; emulsion; food microstructure; morphology;
   object detection algorithm; pickering emulsion
ID deep learning; drops; emulsification; emulsions; learning algorithms; object
   detection; object recognition; ostwald ripening; signal detection;
   characterization; deep learning; emulsion; emulsion droplets; emulsion
   microstructure; emulsion properties; food microstructures; microscopic
   image; object detection algorithms; pickering emulsions; morphology

---

UT 1664
AR Kato S, 2018, PROC - JT INT CONF SOFT COMPUT INTELL SYST INT SYMP ADV INTELL
   SYST SCIS-ISIS, P548, DOI 10.1109/SCIS-ISIS.2018.00097
TI Snack food texture estimation by neural network
AU Kato S; Ito R; Wada N; Kagawa T; Yamamoto M
TC 2
SO PROC - JT INT CONF SOFT COMPUT INTELL SYST INT SYMP ADV INTELL SYST SCIS-
   ISIS
PY 2018
AB this paper describes a system which estimates food texture of three kinds of
   snacks such as potato chips , wafers and cookies . the system consists of an
   original equipment and a neural network model . the equipment observes the
   load and the sound simultaneously when the food is probed . the system
   calculates input parameters of the neural network model . the parameters are
   characteristic values expressing the load change and the sound data . the
   model outputs numerical value ranged [ 0,1 ] which expresses the level of
   the textures such as crunchiness and crispness . the teaching value of the
   neural network is determined by a sensory test by 30 subjects aged between
   16 and 19 in order to reflect general human sensibility . in the experiment
   , it is found that the neural network model outputs the moderate texture
   value of the snacks which are not used for training the model
DE food texture; human sensibility; neural network; soft computing
ID intelligent systems; neural networks; soft computing; textures;
   characteristic value; food texture; human sensibility; input parameter;
   model outputs; neural network model; numerical values; sensory tests;
   intelligent computing

---

UT 1665
AR Memis S, 2020, PROC - INNOV INTELL SYST APPL CONF ASYU, DOI
   10.1109/ASYU50717.2020.9259904
TI A Comparative Study of Deep Learning Methods on Food Classification Problem
AU Memis S; Arslan B; Batur OZ; Sonmez EB
TC 19
SO PROC - INNOV INTELL SYST APPL CONF ASYU
PY 2020
AB this paper gives a comparative study on the performances of several deep
   learning methods for the food images recognition challenge . the experiments
   were conducted on the uec food 100 dataset using resnet 18 , inception v3 ,
   resnet 50 , densenet 121 , wide resnet 50 and resnext 50 with images of size
   320x320 and 299x299 . the limited size of the database required the transfer
   learning approach . that is , all models were trained with pretrained
   imagenet weights . the best classification result was obtained using resnext
   50 with 87.7 % accuracy
DE classification; deep learning; densenet; inception; machine learning;
   resnet; resnext; uec food 100
ID intelligent systems; learning systems; transfer learning; classification
   results; comparative studies; food image; learning methods; deep learning

---

UT 1666
AR Ghosh T, 2022, PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS, V2022-July,
   P2993, DOI 10.1109/EMBC48229.2022.9871278
TI A Comparative Study of Deep Learning Algorithms for Detecting Food Intake
AU Ghosh T; Sazonov E
TC 10
SO PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS
PY 2022
AB the choice of appropriate machine learning algorithms is crucial for
   classification problems . this study compares the performance of state of
   the art time series deep learning algorithms for classifying food intake
   using sensor signals . the sensor signals were collected with the help of a
   wearable sensor system ( the automatic ingestion monitor v2 , or aim 2 ) .
   aim 2 used an optical and 3-axis accelerometer sensor to capture temporalis
   muscle activation . raw signals from those sensors were used to train five
   classifiers ( multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) , time convolutional neural
   network ( time cnn ) , fully convolutional neural network ( fcn ) , residual
   neural network ( resnet ) , and inception network ) to differentiate food
   intake ( eating and drinking ) from other activities . data were collected
   from 17 pilot subjects over the course of 23 days in free living conditions
   . a leave one subject out cross validation scheme was used for training and
   testing . time cnn , fcn , resnet , and inception achieved average balanced
   classification accuracy of 88.84 % , 90.18 % , 93.47 % , and 92.15 % ,
   respectively . the results indicate that resnet outperforms other state of
   the art deep learning algorithms for this specific problem
DE deep learning; food intake detection; time series classification; wearable
   sensors
ID algorithms; deep learning; disease progression; eating; humans; machine
   learning; neural networks computer; convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; deep learning; learning algorithms; multilayer neural networks;
   time series; comparatives studies; convolutional neural network; deep
   learning; food intake; food intake detections; machine learning algorithms;
   neural networks; sensor signals; state of the art; time series
   classifications; algorithm; disease exacerbation; eating; human; machine
   learning; wearable sensors

---

UT 1667
AR Minija SJ, 2020, IMAG SCI J, V68, P100, DOI 10.1080/13682199.2020.1742416
TI Food recognition using neural network classifier and multiple hypotheses
   image segmentation
AU Minija SJ; Emmanuel WRS/1
TC 14
SO IMAG SCI J
PY 2020
AB this paper proposes the multiple hypotheses image segmentation and feed
   forward neural network classifier for food recognition to improve the
   performance . initially , the food or meal image is given as input . then ,
   the segmentation is applied to identify the regions , where a particular
   food item is located using salient region detection , multi scale
   segmentation , and fast rejection . then , the features of every food item
   are extracted by the global feature and local feature extraction . after the
   features are obtained , the classification is performed for each segmented
   region using a feed forward neural network model . finally , the calorie
   value is computed with the aid of ( i ) food volume and ( ii ) calorie and
   nutrition measure based on mass value . the experimental results and
   performance evaluation are validated . the outcome of the proposed method
   attains 0.947 for macro average accuracy ( maa ) and 0.959 for standard
   accuracy ( sa ) , which provides better classification performance . 2020 ,
   2020 the royal photographic society .
DE calorie value; classification; dietary assessment; feature extraction;
   feedforward neural network; food recognition; food volume; segmentation
ID image classification; image enhancement; image segmentation; classification
   performance; global feature; local feature extraction; multiple hypothesis;
   multi-scale segmentation; neural network classifier; salient region
   detections; segmented regions; feedforward neural networks

---

UT 1668
AR [Anonymous], 2019, IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI, V355, DOI
   10.1088/1755-1315/355/1/012003
TI Development of android-based interface to determine color additives in food
   embedded with convolution neural networks technique
TC 3
SO IOP CONF SER EARTH ENV SCI
PY 2019
AB recent advanced technology enables android smartphone suitable for quality
   evaluation of food . in this research , image processing technique was used
   to detect food color additives . in this research , a smartphone application
   was developed to determine the availability of color additives in food
   products . local food namely geplak was made by adding food grade ( i . e .
   tartrazine and erythrosine ) and non food grade ( rhodamin b and methanyl
   yellow ) additives in three concentrations . a mobile phone captured geplak
   images resulting 1200 images which were divided into 1000 images for
   training and 200 images for validation . image data was processed with the
   python programming language of tensorflow function . the output of python in
   nominal weight was then trained and tested by using a convolutional neural
   networks ( cnn ) method . the weights were then processed by android studio
   version 3.2.1 using . java as backend from cnn and . xml as an application
   layout . validation result showed that the program successfully determined
   class of food additive in high degree accuracy of 98 % . 2019 iop publishing
   ltd
ID agriculture; android ( operating system ); color; convolution; high level
   languages; image processing; neural networks; smartphones; advanced
   technology; android smartphone; convolution neural network; convolutional
   neural network; image processing technique; python programming language;
   quality evaluation; smartphone applications; food additives

---

UT 1669
AR Goyal K, 2022, ARCH COMPUT METHODS ENG, V29, P397, DOI
   10.1007/s11831-021-09600-y
TI Food Adulteration Detection using Artificial Intelligence: A Systematic
   Review
AU Goyal K; Kumar P/1; Verma K
TC 95
SO ARCH COMPUT METHODS ENG
PY 2022
AB food adulteration is a deceptive act of misleading food buyers for economic
   gain . it has been a major concern due to its risk to public health ,
   reduction of food quality or nutritional value . it is a food fraud that has
   incensed the food industry and has attracted the attention of the community
   since the last century . to ensure consumer protection against fraudulent
   activities , authentication of food and the detection of adulterants in
   various food items should be taken into consideration . artificial
   intelligence has been proved to be an advanced technology in food science
   and engineering . in this paper , we intend to proclaim the role of
   artificial intelligence in food adulteration detection in a systematic way .
   the potential for machine learning and deep learning in food quality has
   been analyzed through its applications . various data sources that are
   available online to detect food quality have been discussed in this review .
   the different techniques used to detect food adulteration and the parameters
   considered while evaluating the food quality have been highlighted . the
   various comparisons have been done among the state of the art methods along
   with their datasets sets and results . this study will assist the
   researchers in analyzing the best method available to detect food quality .
   it will help them in finding the food products that are studied by different
   researchers along with relevant future research directions . 2021 , cimne ,
   barcelona , spain .
ID consumer protection; food products; health risks; advanced technology; food
   adulterations; food industries; future research directions; its
   applications; nutritional value; state of the art methods; systematic
   review; deep learning

---

UT 1670
AR Salim NOM, 2021, J PHYS CONF SER, V1963, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1963/1/012014
TI Study for Food Recognition System Using Deep Learning
AU Salim NOM; Zeebaree SRM; Sadeeq MAM; Radie AH; Shukur HM; Rashid ZN
TC 58
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2021
AB accurate dietary appraisal has been found by literature to be very
   significant in the evaluation of weight loss treatments . most current
   methods of dietary evaluation , however , depend on recollection . the
   development of a modern computer based food recognition system for reliable
   food evaluation is now possible across comprehensive mobile devices as well
   as rich cloud services . fixing the problem of food detection and
   identification in photos of different kinds of foods . given the variety of
   food products with low inter and high intra class variations and the limited
   information in a single picture , the problem is complicated . by propose
   the overall application of multiple fusion trained classifiers to achieve
   increased identification and recognition capabilities on characteristics
   obtained from various deep models . this paper studied various techniques of
   food recognition using different approaches and based on several variables ,
   compared their effectiveness . our study results demonstrate that deep
   learning overcomes other strategies like manual feature extractors ,
   standard ml algorithms , as well as dl as a practical tool for food hygiene
   and safety inspections
DE classification; clustering; deep learning; feature selection; food
   recognition; neural networks
ID food products; food safety; petroleum reservoir evaluation; cloud services;
   feature extractor; food detection; food hygiene; intra class variation;
   limited information; recognition systems; several variables; deep learning

---

UT 1671
AR Pallathadka H, 2022, INT CONF ADV COMPUT INNOV TECHNOL ENG ICACITE, P2215,
   DOI 10.1109/ICACITE53722.2022.9823427
TI A Review of Using Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Food and
   Agriculture Industry
AU Pallathadka H; Jawarneh M; Sammy F; Garchar V; Sanchez T; Naved M
TC 41
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT INNOV TECHNOL ENG ICACITE
PY 2022
AB food needs are rising as the world s population grows . similarly , the food
   processing industry is growing at an accelerated pace . reduced food waste ,
   better supply chain management , and increased delivery and storage of food
   are urgently required . these goals can be achieved to a large part with the
   use of artificial intelligence and machine learning . when a computer
   software can learn to anticipate future events without being programmed , it
   is known as machine learning . supervised learning and unsupervised learning
   are two of the most common subcategories of machine learning . in this post
   , we will look at how ai and machine learning are being used in the food and
   agricultural sector . supply chain optimization , crop selection , logistics
   , food delivery , maintenance prediction in food processing machinery ,
   detection of crop disease , smart irrigation , crop yield prediction ,
   tracking of perishable food , soil data analysis , and weather data analysis
   are all major applications
DE artificial intelligence; food industry; machine learning; monitoring; smart
   agriculture prediction
ID crops; data handling; digital storage; food processing; food supply;
   information analysis; learning systems; machinery; processed foods; supply
   chain management; waste management; agriculture industries; artificial
   intelligence learning; food industries; food processing industry; food
   waste; large parts; machine learning; smart agriculture prediction; smart
   agricultures; world population; forecasting

---

UT 1672
AR Makridis G, 2020, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12323 LNAI, P566, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-61527-7_37
TI Enhanced Food Safety Through Deep Learning for Food Recalls Prediction
AU Makridis G; Mavrepis P; Kyriazis D; Polychronou I; Kaloudis S
TC 13
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB several application domains / sectors such as logistics , healthcare ,
   industry and transportation , are exploiting the added value of deployed
   sensors to obtain information relevant to the domain and exploit it in
   different contexts ( e . g . for processes optimization , for actions
   adaptation , for decision support , etc . ) . the same applies to the
   agriculture sector , through the deployment of smart devices and sensors
   that provide a wealth of datasets for irrigation tuning , crops assessment ,
   food supply chain operations monitoring , etc . furthermore , emerging
   machine and deep learning data analytics techniques are utilized as a means
   to obtain insights and optimize the aforementioned processes . in this
   context , one significant challenge refers to the enhancement of the food
   safety across the food supply chain given that goods and products can become
   unsafe for plenty of reasons , such as mislabeling allergens , contamination
   etc . to address this challenge , in this paper we introduce a set of deep
   and machine learning techniques employing time series forecasting to provide
   insights regarding the risk associated with each product category concerning
   potential food recalls . additionally , we propose an approach based on
   reinforcement learning which utilizes historical recall announcements for
   predicting future recalls ( by their type ) that leads to timely recalls and
   contributes to enhanced food safety across the supply chain . we also
   evaluate and demonstrate the effectiveness and added value of the proposed
   approaches through a real world scenario that yields promising results
DE deep learning; food safety; reinforcement learning; surrogate data; time
   series forecasting
ID agricultural robots; data analytics; decision support systems; food safety;
   food supply; forecasting; learning systems; reinforcement learning; safety
   engineering; supply chains; added values; agriculture sectors; decision
   supports; machine learning techniques; product categories; real-world
   scenario; smart devices; time series forecasting; deep learning

---

UT 1673
AR Khadir MT, 2021, ARTIF NEURAL NETW FOOD PROCESS MODEL PREDICT CONTROL, P1,
   DOI 10.1515/9783110646054
TI Artificial neural networks in food processing: Modeling and predictive
   control
AU Khadir MT
TC 11
SO ARTIF NEURAL NETW FOOD PROCESS MODEL PREDICT CONTROL
PY 2021
AB artificial neural networks ( anns ) is a powerful computational tool to
   mimic the learning process of the mammalian brain . this book gives a
   comprehensive overview of anns including an introduction to the topic ,
   classifications of single neurons and neural networks , model predictive
   control and a review of anns used in food processing . also , examples of
   anns in food processing applications such as pasteurization control are
   illustrated
DE food process engineering; model predictive control; neurtal networks

---

UT 1674
AR Chun M, 2022, IEEE ACCESS, V10, P128732, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3227796
TI Development of Korean Food Image Classification Model Using Public Food
   Image Dataset and Deep Learning Methods
AU Chun M; Jeong H; Lee H/2; Yoo T; Jung H/1
TC 29
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2022
AB food image classification is useful in diet management apps for personal
   health management . various methods for classifying food images in a
   particular country have been proposed in multiple studies . however ,
   knowledge of korean food image classification is limited . the objective of
   this study was to train a classification model for korean food images . to
   train the classification model , we collected korean food images from the ai
   hub platform , a public food image dataset . the images were pre processed
   and augmented for model training . the proposed model was evaluated in an
   experiment using a korean food image dataset and effectively classified
   korean food images based on transfer learning . the findings of the study
   revealed that the model s performance in classifying food images depended on
   the type of food . the findings have implications for the classification
   model training process using cnn and the korean public food image dataset .
   future work is required to improve the performance of a classification model
   , especially as it pertains to its poor performance for some food image
   types
DE computer vision; convolutional neural networks; image classification;
   machine learning; supervised learning
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; feature extraction; image
   classification; image enhancement; learning systems; neural networks;
   support vector machines; convolutional neural network; deep learning;
   features extraction; histogram; image color analysis; images classification;
   machine learning; support vectors machine; computer vision

---

UT 1675
AR Garcia-Esteban JA, 2018, PROC - IEEE INT CONF IND INDIN, P221, DOI
   10.1109/INDIN.2018.8471994
TI A digitalization strategy for quality control in food industry based on
   Artificial Intelligence techniques
AU Garcia-Esteban JA; Curto B; Moreno V; Gonzalez-Martin I; Revilla I; Vivar-
   Quintana A
TC 23
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF IND INDIN
PY 2018
AB in food products marketing , ensuring to the consumer identical organoleptic
   properties is vital for maintaining the client fidelity . systematically
   achieve it by using as sensory information the valuations of a tasting panel
   , is unfeasible . routinely , to assemble a tasting panel involves
   organizational and economics costs , as well as the sensory fatigue and the
   subjectivity of the panel members . in this paper is proposed a
   vitualization strategy or computational model focused on food products
   quality control , based on cooperation and data exchange between the main
   agents involved in the process : quality managers , professional tasters ,
   production managers , inspection authorities , etc . virtualization (
   digitalization ) is supported on a icatador cloud platform which has
   intelligent algorithms embedded to predict the food sensory properties .
   these algorithms have near infrared spectroscopy data of the product samples
   as input . as a validation scenario , our virtualization approach has been
   applied to the ripening cheese elaboration . thanks to advanced
   visualization techniques , the quality manager can immediately and
   systematically know the merit figure related to a product sensory quality .
   the icatador solution , has two profitable aspects . sensory analysis is
   performed without routinely gathering a professional tasting panel . as a
   huge amount of data coming from the elaboration process itself are available
   , the intelligent algorithms are enriched by these data for the adaptation
   to the product elaboration process . in this way , we will be able to fine
   tune continuously the machine learning algorithms to the particular process
   and use them intelligently to increase the competitiveness
DE food machine learning estimation; food sensory predictions; virtualization
   of food quality control
ID artificial intelligence; electronic data interchange; food products;
   infrared devices; inspection; learning algorithms; learning systems;
   managers; near infrared spectroscopy; quality assurance; sensory perception;
   virtual reality; virtualization; advanced visualizations; artificial
   intelligence techniques; computational model; food quality controls;
   intelligent algorithms; organoleptic properties; sensory information;
   validation scenarios; sensory analysis

---

UT 1676
AR Elsi ZRS, 2020, J PHYS CONF SER, V1594, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1594/1/012007
TI Utilization of Data Mining Techniques in National Food Security during the
   Covid-19 Pandemic in Indonesia
AU Elsi ZRS; Pratiwi H; Efendi Y/1; Rusdina R; Alfah R; Windarto AP; Wiza F
TC 24
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2020
AB the aim of the research is to map clusters on indonesia s national food
   security during the covid 19 pandemic . where food security is a condition
   for the fulfillment of food for the state up to individuals , which is
   reflected in the availability of sufficient food , both in quantity and
   quality , safe , diverse , nutritious , equitable , and affordable and does
   not conflict with the religion , beliefs and culture of the community , to
   be able to live a healthy , active , and productive life in a sustainable
   manner . the data source used is secondary data from the central statistics
   agency ( abbreviated bps ) . the data consists of monthly per capita
   expenditure in urban and rural areas by province and group of goods ( rupiah
   ) consisting of 33 data records ( 2011-2018 ) . the group of goods used is
   expenditures used for food costs . the data mining method used is k medoids
   which are part of the clustering . cluster mapping uses 2 labels namely c1 :
   labels with high food security and c2 : labels with low food security . the
   results of the k medoids method calculation concluded that 19 provinces were
   in c1 cluster and 14 provinces were in c2 cluster . from these results it is
   stated that 42 % of indonesia still has low food security as evidenced by
   the fulfillment of higher food needs than non food . these regions are west
   sumatra , riau , bangka belitung islands , riau islands , dki jakarta , west
   java , banten , bali , central kalimantan , south borneo , east kalimantan ,
   north sulawesi , west papua and papua
ID clustering algorithms; engineering research; food supply; national security;
   data mining methods; data-source; food security; map clusters; national
   foods; secondary datum; urban and rural areas; west sumatra; data mining

---

UT 1677
AR Tang X, 2021, J PHYS CONF SER, V1852, DOI 10.1088/1742-6596/1852/2/022085
TI Research on Personalized Healthy Diet Recommendation Based on Artificial
   Intelligence
AU Tang X
TC 1
SO J PHYS CONF SER
PY 2021
AB with the development of the internet , china s good data mining technology
   in e commerce has achieved development , and the recommendation service has
   gradually become popular and has been adopted by the majority of citizens .
   in order to facilitate people to quickly find what they need from a large
   number of commodities and save consumers time , the recommendation system
   pays more and more attention to the user experience . this paper constructs
   a healthy diet recommendation model based on improved apriori . when judging
   the user s dietary preferences , the improved apriori algorithm is used to
   recommend the diet . the original algorithm and the improved algorithm are
   compared to the same example . the results show that the improved algorithm
   has advantages in mining association rules and can better realize
   personalized healthy diet recommendations
DE apriori algorithm; artificial intelligence; healthy diet recommendation
   system
ID artificial intelligence; data mining; learning algorithms; apriori; apriori
   algorithms; data mining technology; e- commerces; good data; healthy diet;
   healthy diet recommendation system; improved algorithm; model-based opc;
   users experiences; recommender systems

---

UT 1678
AR Raghavendra GS, 2022, J FOOD QUAL, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/2197717
TI An Empirical Investigation in Analysing the Critical Factors of Artificial
   Intelligence in Influencing the Food Processing Industry: A Multivariate
   Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) Approach
AU Raghavendra GS; Mary SSC; Acharjee PB; Varun VL; Bukhari SNH; Dutta C;
   Samori IA
TC 11
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2022
AB in the era of digital technology , where innovation and digitization are
   transforming the business functions , the field of customer relationship
   management has witnessed sea change in the recent decade . the application
   of artificial intelligence in food processing has enabled enhancing the
   availability of food in an effective manner for all the individuals . it has
   been regarded that the application of labor force tends to play a crucial
   aspect for the overall execution of things in the different domains related
   to food manufacturing and processing , which are related to the enhanced
   involvement of individuals in the processing of food and related products ,
   the industry could not able to meet the growing demand from the customers .
   so , in order to overcome these critical issues , it is noted that the
   application of technology such as automation and artificial intelligence is
   implemented for enhanced processing and enable delivering quality products
   to the customers at lower cost . the impact of ai in the current business
   world is becoming more indispensable as companies have started to unleash
   its potential . the role of ai in food processing is fast changing the
   manner in which the customer queries are addressed , enabling analyzing the
   needs and requirements , and focus on creating improved packaging , high
   quality , and better shelf life . this empirical investigation is focusing
   on analyzing the critical factors related to ai in influencing the food
   processing industry . the researchers intend to apply quantitative analysis
   using ibm spss package , and the results are stated in detail based on the
   analysis . 2022 g . s . raghavendra et al .
ID food processing; public relations; sales; business functions; critical
   factors; customer relationship management; digital technologies;
   digitization; empirical investigation; food processing industry; labor
   force; multivariate analysis of variances; variance approaches; artificial
   intelligence

---

UT 1679
AR Rai G, 2020, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V106, P395, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-2329-8_40
TI Computing Diet Composition for Patients with High Cholesterol Using
   Decision-Making Approach
AU Rai G; Dubey SK
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2020
AB cholesterol is a blended mixture that presents in tissues of the human body
   . cholesterol and by products of cholesterol are essential constituents of
   cell mucosa . a sudden increase in the level of cholesterol leads to
   increased risk of coronary heart diseases . cholesterol is not required to
   be consumed as a part of the daily diet . human body can exaggerate
   cholesterol on its own . cholesterol supports the proper functioning of
   human metabolism . cholesterol is essential to build healthy body cells .
   sudden increase in the level of cholesterol does not have any notable
   indication . increased cholesterol levels in blood can only be suspected
   through a blood test . factors such as poor diet , obesity , lack of
   exercise , smoking , age , and diabetes because poor cholesterol level in
   the human body . poor cholesterol level can cause complications like chest
   pain , heart attack , and stroke . human liver secrets about 80 % of the
   human body s cholesterol and the other comes from the dietary constituents
   such as fish , meat , eggs , and dairy products . the proposed work suggests
   the dietary patterns to recommend a diet for patients with poor cholesterol
   level . this diet will help in maintaining a good cholesterol level .
   analytic hierarchy process is used as a technique to implement this proposed
   work . estimation of ideal diet has been recommended to patients with poor
   cholesterol level . the final outcomes reveal the ideal diet plan for the
   patients with a bad cholesterol level . this recommends the diets to be
   consumed by the patients at breakfast , lunch , and dinner . fuzzy methods
   are used to validate our work . the final results are in match with the
   results obtained by analytic hierarchy process . springer nature singapore
   pte ltd . 2020 .
DE ahp; cholesterol; entropy; model; recommendation system

---

UT 1680
AR Chen M, 2021, SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC, V42, P35, DOI
   10.7506/spkx1002-6630-20200505-027
TI Data Mining Model for Food Safety Incidents Based on Structural Analysis and
   Semantic Similarity; [基于结构化分析和语义相似度的食品安全事件领域数据挖掘模型]
AU Chen M; Zhang J/1; Hu E; Wu L; Zhang Y/2
TC 2
SO SHIPIN KEXUE/FOOD SC
PY 2021
AB food safety concerns public health and the stability of society . in this
   paper , we analyzed the characteristics of the food safety incidents ( fsis
   ) , including spatial distribution , food categories , risk factors , and
   supply chain links , reported by mainstream media in china . based on our
   analysis , we constructed a semantic template for text data related to fsis
   . moreover , we introduced a strategy of multi layer and multi level
   semantic structure of rank ( mmss rank ) algorithm to measure the similarity
   between the collected food safety data and the semantic template , and then
   calculated the overall scores and selected an appropriate threshold to
   determine the accuracy of the fsi data . supporting vector machine and
   semantic structure template are adopted to conduct the classification
   accuracy comparison via data extraction and cleansing . results showed that
   compared with the traditional methods , mmss rank was an efficient and
   robust method for identifying large scale fsi data with higher accuracy and
   recall rate . 2021 , china food publishing company . all right reserved .
DE big data; food safety incidents; semantic analysis; semantic structure
   template
ID food safety; health risks; risk assessment; safety engineering; semantics;
   supply chains; text processing; classification accuracy; data extraction;
   data mining models; mainstream media; semantic similarity; semantic
   structures; semantic templates; vector machines; data mining

---

UT 1681
AR Chen H/4, 2011, PROC CHIN CONTROL CONF CCC, P2687
TI Artificial neural network in food processing
AU Chen H/4; Sun H; Yi X; Chen X/3
TC 6
SO PROC CHIN CONTROL CONF CCC
PY 2011
AB once regarded as an eccentric and unpromising algorithm for the analysis of
   scientific data , the artificial neural network ( ann ) has been developed
   into a powerful computational tool . compared to a traditional regression
   approach , with its excellent fault tolerance , the ann is capable of
   modeling complex nonlinear relationships and is highly scalable with
   parallel processing . so its use now spans all areas of science , from the
   physical sciences and processing to the life sciences and allied subjects .
   when the data explosion in modern food processing research requires
   sophisticated analysis methods to uncover the hidden causal relationships
   between single or multiple responses and a large set of properties , the ann
   is one of the most versatile tools to meet the demand . therefore , the main
   ann architectures are described briefly in this review and examples of their
   application to solve food processing problems are presented as well .
   finally , it is suggested that different architectures of ann and learning
   algorithms should be introduced into food processing , and the possibility
   of implementing a neural network based class modeling algorithm should be
   studied as well . 2011 chinese assoc of automati .
DE artificial neural network ( ann ); classify; food processing; model;
   optimize; predict; separate
ID fault tolerance; food processing; learning algorithms; models; network
   architecture; processed foods; artificial neural network; classify;
   optimize; predict; separate; neural networks

---

UT 1682
AR Perrot NM, 2022, DEV BIOTECHNOL BIOENG ADV BIOPROCESS ENG, P261, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-323-91167-2.00006-X
TI Machine learning for agri-food processes: learning from data, human
   knowledge, and interactions
AU Perrot NM; Tonda A; Boukhelifa N; Brunetti I; Bezerianos A; Lutton E
TC 1
SO DEV BIOTECHNOL BIOENG ADV BIOPROCESS ENG
PY 2022
AB this chapter presents three examples of data based machine learning ( ml )
   on time series . the common denominator of these case studies is the
   sparseness of data , making ml results fragile and inaccurate . we show how
   human expertise can be effectively mobilized for building useful systems ,
   for instance useful decision support systems , able to better meet the needs
   of the agri food chain . the design and analysis of different features of ml
   coupled with human knowledge enable us to sketch future human centered ml
   systems . this approach is very relevant for the modeling of agri food
   systems , because human expertise , skills , and know how are rich and
   numerous , but often implicit , data are heterogeneous big and sparse and
   processes are complex and deeply conditioned by human needs and interactions
DE agri-food processes; expertise formalization; interactive machine learning;
   interactive systems; knowledge integration; machine learning; stochastic
   methods; visualization

---

UT 1683
AR Tasci E, 2020, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V79, P30397, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-020-09486-1
TI Voting combinations-based ensemble of fine-tuned convolutional neural
   networks for food image recognition
AU Tasci E
TC 38
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2020
AB obesity is one of today s most visible , uncared , and common public health
   problems worldwide . to manage weight loss , obtain calorie intake and
   record eating lists , the development of the diverse automatic dietary
   assessment applications has great importance . recently , deep learning
   becomes a popular approach that provides outstanding image recognition
   results . in this paper , we use resnet , googlenet , vggnet , and
   inceptionv3 with fine tuning based on deep learning for image based and
   computer aided food recognition task . we also apply six voting combination
   rules ( namely , minimum probability , average of probabilities , median ,
   maximum probability , product of probabilities , and weighted probabilities
   ) for ensemble methods . the experimental results demonstrate that our
   proposed ensemble voting scheme with transfer learning gives promising
   results compared to the state of the art methods on food 101 , uec food100 ,
   and uec food256 image datasets
DE classification; cnn; deep learning; ensemble learning; food recognition;
   image processing; optimization; voting
ID computer aided instruction; convolutional neural networks; image
   recognition; optical character recognition; probability; transfer learning;
   combination rules; dietary assessments; ensemble methods; image datasets;
   maximum probability; state of the art methods; voting schemes; weighted
   probability; deep learning

---

UT 1684
AR Cheong YS, 2021, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS, DOI
   10.1109/AiDAS53897.2021.9574261
TI Artificial Intelligence (Ai) in the Food and Beverage Industry: Improves the
   Customer Experience
AU Cheong YS; Seah CS; Loh YX; Loh LH
TC 24
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA SCI AIDAS
PY 2021
AB this study examine how artificial intelligence ( ai ) tools can help
   restaurants improve service quality and create a better customer experience
   . robots , chatbots , facial recognition , voice activated technology ,
   sentiment analysis , and perceived usefulness have all been investigated .
   questionnaires were used as the survey tool in this investigation . a total
   of 250 questionnaire sets were collected successfully . the findings
   demonstrate that all ai technologies have a favorable link with service
   quality , with voice activated technology having the strongest correlation
DE artificial intelligence; chatbot; customer experience; facial recognition;
   food and beverage industry; robots; sentiment analysis; service quality;
   voice-activated technology
ID beverages; face recognition; intelligent robots; quality control; sales;
   sentiment analysis; surveys; artificial intelligence technologies;
   artificial intelligence tools; chatbots; customer experience; facial
   recognition; food and beverage industry; perceived usefulness; sentiment
   analysis; service quality; voice-activated technology; quality of service

---

UT 1685
AR Bagheri M, 2020, SCI ENV, V698, DOI 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2019.133999
TI Examining plant uptake and translocation of emerging contaminants using
   machine learning: Implications to food security
AU Bagheri M; Al-jabery K; Wunsch D; Burken JG
TC 65
SO SCI ENV
PY 2020
AB when water and solutes enter the plant root through the epidermis , organic
   contaminants in solution either cross the root membranes and transport
   through the vascular pathways to the aerial tissues or accumulate in the
   plant roots . the accumulation of contaminants in plant roots and edible
   tissues is measured by root concentration factor ( rcf ) and fruit
   concentration factor ( fcf ) . in this paper , 1 ) a neural network ( nn )
   was applied to model rcf based on physicochemical properties of organic
   compounds , 2 ) correlation and significance of physicochemical properties
   were assessed using statistical analysis , 3 ) fuzzy logic was used to
   examine the simultaneous impacts of significant compound properties on rcf
   and fcf , 4 ) a clustering algorithm ( k means ) was used to identify unique
   groups and discover hidden relationships within contaminants in various
   parts of the plants . the physicochemical cutoffs achieved by fuzzy logic
   for the rcf and the fcf were compared versus the cutoffs for compounds that
   crossed the plant root membranes and found their way into transpiration
   stream ( measured by transpiration stream concentration factor , tscf ) .
   the nn predicted the rcf with improved accuracy compared to mechanistic
   models . the analysis indicated that log kow , molecular weight , and
   rotatable bonds are the most important properties for predicting the rcf .
   these significant compound properties are positively correlated with rcf
   while they are negatively correlated with tscf . comparing the relationships
   between compound properties in various plant tissues showed that compounds
   detected in the edible parts have physicochemical cutoffs that are more like
   the compounds crossing the plant root membranes ( into xylem tissues ) than
   the compounds accumulating in the plant roots , with clear relationships to
   food security . the cluster analysis placed the contaminants into three
   meaningful groups that were in agreement with the results of fuzzy logic
DE clustering algorithm; food security; fuzzy logic; neural network; plant
   uptake
ID cluster analysis; food supply; fuzzy logic; machine learning; neural
   networks computer; plants; soil pollutants; xylem; antennas; cluster
   analysis; clustering algorithms; computer circuits; contamination; food
   supply; fuzzy inference; fuzzy neural networks; histology; k-means
   clustering; machine learning; network security; neural networks;
   physicochemical properties; river pollution; tissue; transpiration; organic
   compound; perfluoro compound; polyfluoroalkyl substance; unclassified drug;
   concentration factors; emerging contaminant; food security; neural network (
   nn ); organic contaminant; plant uptake; root concentration factor;
   transpiration stream concentration factor; algorithm; artificial neural
   network; bioaccumulation; biological uptake; concentration ( composition );
   food security; fuzzy mathematics; physicochemical property; transpiration;
   accuracy; algorithm; article; artificial neural network; bioaccumulation;
   cluster analysis; concentration ( parameter ); evapotranspiration; food
   contamination; food security; fruit; fuzzy logic; hydrophobicity; lipid
   solubility; machine learning; mathematical model; molecular weight;
   nonhuman; persistent organic pollutant; physical chemistry; plant
   parameters; plant root; plant structures; plant translocation; plant uptake;
   prediction; priority journal; reference value; xylem; catering service;
   metabolism; plant; soil pollutant; fuzzy logic

---

UT 1686
AR Vaskovsky AM, 2019, SCH DYN COMPLEX NETWORKS APPL INTELLECT ROBOT DCNAIR,
   P175, DOI 10.1109/DCNAIR.2019.8875559
TI Designing the neural network for personalization of food products for
   persons with genetic president of diabetic sugar
AU Vaskovsky AM; Chvanova MS
TC 9
SO SCH DYN COMPLEX NETWORKS APPL INTELLECT ROBOT DCNAIR
PY 2019
AB the article substantiates the relevance of the design of a neural network
   personalizing food for people with a genetic predisposition to diabetes .
   existing models and forecasting methods for solving this problem are
   considered . when developing an information system for personalizing food
   products , it is justified that the development focuses on modeling the
   digital twin of the product and the consumer , as well as defining the
   technologies that form the basis of a personalized nutrition model to create
   an accurate , properly functioning system
DE neural network; nutrition personalization; susceptibility to diabetes
ID food products; neural networks; nutrition; product design; robotics;
   forecasting methods; genetic predisposition; personalizations; complex
   networks

---

UT 1687
AR Hu L/1, 2018, PROC CHIN AUTOM CONGR CAC, P3778, DOI 10.1109/CAC.2018.8623474
TI Automatic Diet Recording Based on Deep Learning
AU Hu L/1; Zhang W/2; Zhou C/2; Lu G; Bai H
TC 6
SO PROC CHIN AUTOM CONGR CAC
PY 2018
AB diet assessment plays an important role in the prevention and treatment of
   many diseases , but it takes too much time and money to do a thorough long
   term diet record . in order to make the recording efficient and affordable ,
   we aim at building an automatic diet recording system , which can improve
   the automation level of diet recording through deep learning algorithms .
   and two contributions have been made in this paper . first , several deep
   learning models are trained and evaluated on the commonly used food image
   datasets , and after fusing several popular convolution neural network
   models , the top 1 accuracy on uec food 100 , uec food 256 , food 101 and
   chinesefoodnet datasets can reach 84.0 % , 75.9 % , 84.5 % and 79.8 %
   respectively . second , based on the trained deep learning models , we build
   an automatic diet recording prototype system , which performs well during
   the test in a real canteen . the work of this paper suggests that deep
   learning can achieve a high accuracy in the automatic identification of
   dietary objects , which will help to promote the research in the field of
   disease prevention and rehabilitation
DE deep learning; diet recording; food image
ID deep learning; image recording; learning algorithms; automation levels;
   convolution neural network; deep learning; diet recording; food image; image
   datasets; learning models; neural network model; prototype system; recording
   systems; automation

---

UT 1688
AR Surya V, 2020, J ADV RES DYN CONTROL SYST, V12, P543, DOI
   10.5373/JARDCS/V12I7/20202037
TI A qualitative analysis of the machine learning methods in food adultery: A
   focus on milk adulteration detection
AU Surya V; Senthilselvi A
TC 13
SO J ADV RES DYN CONTROL SYST
PY 2020
AB food adultery is the process where the quality is compromised by adding
   certain chemicals or other substitutions which when consumed causes health
   hazards . the process includes not only the purposeful addition of additives
   but also the contamination occurring in growing stage , storage and when
   distributed . adulteration has become a big business . we belong to a land
   where our ancestors taught that ' food is medicine ' . milk is one of the
   important foods consumed irrespective of age that ranges from infants till
   old people . on the contrast , in recent business era , milk is getting
   adulterated in more complicated ways that bypass the normal tests and hence
   there is a huge demand for a cutting edge technology for detecting the same
   . application of artificial intelligence has emerged in many diverse fields
   not limiting to identification of food adulteration . this paper gives a
   gist of most important and significant researches that are carried on in the
   detection of adulterated food , particularly milk using the techniques of
   machine learning . a special attention is kept on the machine learning
   techniques that are designed specifically to detect the milk adulteration .
   2020 , institute of advanced scientific research , inc .
DE adulteration; artificial intelligence; contamination; machine learning

---

UT 1689
AR Han J, 2022, GENET RES, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/6852022
TI Using Machine Learning Approaches for Food Quality Detection
AU Han J; Li T; He Y/1; Gao Q
TC 33
SO GENET RES
PY 2022
AB food quality detection is an important method for ensuring food safety .
   efficient quality detection methods can improve the efficiency of food
   circulation and reduce storage and labor costs . traditional methods use
   instrumentation , testing reagents , or manual labor . these methods take a
   long time to detect , are time consuming and labor intensive , and require
   professionals to operate . fruit , as a high value food that provides
   essential nutrition for human beings , is susceptible to spoilage during
   packaging , transportation , and sales , so the freshness and safety
   assurance of fruit are a hot and difficult area of current research .
   therefore , for the detection of fruit freshness , this paper proposes an
   efficient and nondestructive way to detect fruit freshness by using the
   machine learning algorithm convolutional neural network ( cnn ) . this paper
   shows that convolutional neural networks have good performance in
   identifying the freshness of fruits through extensive experimental results
   and discusses the overfitting of machine learning based on the experimental
   results . 2022 junming han et al .
ID article; convolutional neural network; food quality; fruit; human; machine
   learning

---

UT 1690
AR Mohanty SP, 2022, NUTR, V9, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2022.875143
TI The Food Recognition Benchmark: Using Deep Learning to Recognize Food in
   Images
AU Mohanty SP; Singhal G; Scuccimarra EA; Kebaili D; Héritier H; Boulanger V;
   Salathé M
TC 45
SO NUTR
PY 2022
AB the automatic recognition of food on images has numerous interesting
   applications , including nutritional tracking in medical cohorts . the
   problem has received significant research attention , but an ongoing public
   benchmark on non biased ( i . e . , not scraped from web ) data to develop
   open and reproducible algorithms has been missing . here , we report on the
   setup of such a benchmark using publicly available food images sourced
   through the mobile myfoodrepo app used in research cohorts . through four
   rounds , the benchmark released the myfoodrepo 273 dataset constituting
   24,119 images and a total of 39,325 segmented polygons categorized in 273
   different classes . models were evaluated on private tests sets from the
   same platform with 5,000 images and 7,865 annotations in the final round .
   top performing models on the 273 food categories reached a mean average
   precision of 0.568 ( round 4 ) and a mean average recall of 0.885 ( round 3
   ) , and were deployed in production use of the myfoodrepo app . we present
   experimental validation of round 4 results , and discuss implications of the
   benchmark setup designed to increase the size and diversity of the dataset
   for future rounds
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); benchmark; deep learning; food recognition;
   images

---

UT 1691
AR Jemima Jebaseeli T, 2020, J GREEN ENG, V10, P2043
TI Safe engineering application for analysis the food calorie using deep
   learning
AU Jemima Jebaseeli T; Ramalakshmi K; Venkatesan R
TC 0
SO J GREEN ENG
PY 2020
AB fatty admission has demonstrated destructive around the world , as it has
   prompted numerous infections . notwithstanding , dieticians have botched
   that a standard admission of a number of calories is basic to keep up the
   correct parity of calorie content in the human body . right now , consider
   the class of apparatuses that utilization picture preparing to perceive
   single and various blended nourishment objects , specifically support vector
   machine . the proposed technique is completely programmed and easy to
   understand the alignment of the measures of nourishment divides . this
   adjustment is required to apprise the all out number of calories in
   nourishment divides . the developed android application will allow the user
   to know the calorie and nutrition value requirements per day . the user can
   choose the food via a camera or photo library . the machine learning model
   created is to recognize and classify the food and gives out the nutrition
   values and calorie of the food . this data will be stored throughout the day
   . if the user tries to consume more than the required daily calorie , then
   the application will give an alert and the user will not be able to choose
   the food . the next day the value will be reset according to the data given
   by the user . this application will be very useful who are ready to maintain
   a healthy lifestyle . 2020 , alpha publishers
DE android application; classification; convolutional neural network; feature
   extraction; food calorie; nutrients

---

UT 1692
AR Liu Y/6, 2020, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V38, P76, DOI
   10.3969/j.issn.2095-6002.2020.06.010
TI Comparison of Color Matching Between Multivariate Linear Model and Neural
   Network Model of Natural Food Pigments; [天然食用色素的多元线性模型和神经网络模型的配色效果比较]
AU Liu Y/6; Lei S; Zhu D/3; Gao L; Liu G; Wang C/1; Liu J/1; Guo Q/1
TC 0
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB natural food pigments are widely used , and trichromatic pigments can be
   mixed with different colors according to their concentrations . traditional
   color matching methods are highly dependent on experience of color matching
   , which result in low production efficiency , big variation and poor product
   quality stability . in this study , according to the characteristic
   absorption peak of natural food pigments had no change during mixing , and
   based on the matching method of absorption spectrum , color matching models
   of multiple linear and neural network were established between the
   concentration of pigments and the absorption value of the characteristic
   absorption peak . and the optimal model was selected and tested by errors
   analysis . the results showed that the prediction accuracy and stability of
   neural network model were better than those in multivariate linear model ,
   and the color differences between the prediction formula and the original
   formula were within 3 , which could not be distinguished by naked eyes .
   thus the neural network models were more suitable for color matching
   requirements . these results provided theoretical basis for the intelligent
   color matching of natural food pigments . 2020 , editorial department of
   journal of food science and technology . all right reserved .
DE complex color matching; multivariate linear model; natural food pigment;
   neural network model; trichromatic pigment
ID absorption spectroscopy; color; neural networks; absorption values;
   characteristic absorption; color difference; multivariate linear model;
   natural food pigments; neural network model; prediction accuracy; production
   efficiency; color matching

---

UT 1693
AR Ramirez-Asis E, 2022, MATER TODAY PROC, V51, P2462, DOI
   10.1016/j.matpr.2021.11.616
TI A review on role of artificial intelligence in food processing and
   manufacturing industry
AU Ramirez-Asis E; Vilchez-Carcamo J; Thakar CM; Phasinam K; Kassanuk T; Naved
   M
TC 81
SO MATER TODAY PROC
PY 2022
AB food is essential for humans . it is critical to decrease food waste ,
   optimize the supply chain , and enhance food logistics , food delivery , and
   food safety . to a large extent , artificial intelligence and machine
   learning aid in accomplishing these goals . the increasingly widespread and
   sophisticated computing networks enable modern industrial and logistical
   systems . data are continually created by sensors , machines , systems ,
   intelligent devices and people inside these networks . this big data is
   analyzed quicker , more extensively and deeper than ever with increasing
   computer powers . these breakthroughs have redeveloped and created a new age
   known as industry 4.0 or the smart factory , the value of artificial
   information technology ( ai ) . this article discusses machine learning and
   artificial intelligence applications in the food industry and manufacturing
   . major applications include supply chain optimization , crop selection ,
   logistics , food delivery , and forecasting maintenance in food processing
   machines
DE artificial intelligence; food industry; logistics; manufacturing; smart
   factory; supply chain
ID food processing; food safety; food supply; machine learning; manufacture;
   processed foods; food delivery; food industries; food logistics; food
   manufacturing industries; food processing industry; food waste; food safety;
   machine learning; manufacturing; smart factory; supply chains

---

UT 1694
AR De Clercq M, 2015, COMMUN AGRIC APPL BIOL SCI, V80, P111
TI RECIPE COMPLETION USING MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES
AU De Clercq M; Stock M/1; De Baets B; Waegeman W
TC 0
SO COMMUN AGRIC APPL BIOL SCI
PY 2015
AB completing a recipe is a non trivial task , as the success of ingredient
   combinations depends on a multitude of factors such as taste , smell ,
   texture , etc . the aim of our work is to build a model that adds one or
   more ingredients to a given number of ingredients . the idea is based on
   leftover ingredients in a fridge . a person could list the available
   ingredients in his or her fridge and the model would suggest some additional
   ingredients to create a full recipe .
ID cooking; machine learning; models theoretical; cooking; machine learning;
   theoretical model

---

UT 1695
AR Gonzalez Viejo C, 2018, SENSORS, V18, DOI 10.3390/s18061802
TI Non-contact heart rate and blood pressure estimations from video analysis
   and machine learning modelling applied to food sensory responses: A case
   study for chocolate
AU Gonzalez Viejo C; Fuentes S; Torrico DD; Dunshea FR
TC 69
SO SENSORS
PY 2018
AB traditional methods to assess heart rate ( hr ) and blood pressure ( bp )
   are intrusive and can affect results in sensory analysis of food as
   participants are aware of the sensors . this paper aims to validate a non
   contact method to measure hr using the photoplethysmography ( ppg )
   technique and to develop models to predict the real hr and bp based on raw
   video analysis ( rva ) with an example application in chocolate consumption
   using machine learning ( ml ) . the rva used a computer vision algorithm
   based on luminosity changes on the different rgb color channels using three
   face regions ( forehead and both cheeks ) . to validate the proposed method
   and ml models , a home oscillometric monitor and a finger sensor were used .
   results showed high correlations with the g color channel ( r2 = 0.83 ) .
   two ml models were developed using three face regions : ( i ) model 1 to
   predict hr and bp using the rva outputs with are = 0.85 and ( ii ) model 2
   based on time series prediction with hr , magnitude and luminosity from rva
   inputs to hr values every second with are = 0.97. an application for the
   sensory analysis of chocolate showed significant correlations between
   changes in hr and bp with chocolate hardness and purchase intention
DE blood pressure; computer vision; heart rate; machine learning modeling; non-
   intrusive sensors
ID blood pressure determination; chocolate; face; female; food
   hypersensitivity; heart rate; humans; machine learning; male; monitoring
   physiologic; photoplethysmography; signal processing computer-assisted;
   video recording; artificial intelligence; blood pressure; computer vision;
   forecasting; heart; learning systems; luminance; computer vision algorithms;
   heart rate and blood pressure; heart rates; non-intrusive sensors;
   noncontact methods; photoplethysmography ( ppg ); purchase intention; time
   series prediction; blood pressure measurement; chocolate; face; female; food
   allergy; heart rate; human; machine learning; male; pathophysiology;
   photoelectric plethysmography; physiologic monitoring; physiology;
   procedures; signal processing; videorecording; sensory analysis

---

UT 1696
AR Zhou L/2, 2022, LWT, V153, DOI 10.1016/j.lwt.2021.112456
TI A portable NIR-system for mixture powdery food analysis using deep learning
AU Zhou L/2; Tan L; Zhang C/3; Zhao N; He Y; Qiu Z
TC 43
SO LWT
PY 2022
AB the combination of near infrared spectroscopy and machine intelligence has
   been an emerging nondestructive tool for powdery food evaluation . in this
   research , a novel portable system ( defined as nir spoon ) was presented
   for simultaneously evaluating the mixing proportion of multi mixture powdery
   food . convolutional neural networks for multi regression ( cnn mr ) and
   that for feature selection ( cnn fs ) were proposed for spectra processing .
   multi mixture powder samples , which contained one or more components
   including milk , rice , corn and wheat , were inspected by the nir spoon .
   results showed that the partial least squares regression ( plsr ) model
   estimated the proportion of mixture with root mean square error ( rmse ) of
   0.059 and correlation coefficient ( r2 ) of 0.938. the proposed cnn mr
   realized a further improvement comparing to the benchmark plsr method , with
   0.035 for rmse and 0.976 for r2 . the cnn mr still kept r2 of 0.970 based on
   25 features selected by the cnn fs algorithm . moreover , the integrated
   load sensor could convert the proportion to the weight of each component .
   all hardware and software were integrated on the nir spoon . overall , the
   nir spoon provided satisfactory accuracy and user friendly mobile
   applications . it also has excellent potential to be extended for inspecting
   other kinds of food products in future research
DE chemometrics; convolutional neural network; feature selection; nir
   spectroscopy; powdery food
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep learning; feature
   extraction; food products; least squares approximations; mean square error;
   mixtures; near infrared spectroscopy; chemometrices; convolutional neural
   network; features selection; food analysis; machine intelligence; multi-
   regression; nir spectroscopy; nondestructive tools; powdery food; root mean
   square errors; infrared devices

---

UT 1697
AR Lee C, 2021, PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN, P3150, DOI
   10.1145/3447548.3467201
TI Diet Planning with Machine Learning: Teacher-forced REINFORCE for
   Composition Compliance with Nutrition Enhancement
AU Lee C; Kim S; Lim C; Kim J; Kim Y/2; Jung M
TC 15
SO PROC ACM SIGKDD INT CONF KNOWL DISCOV DATA MIN
PY 2021
AB diet planning is a basic and regular human activity . previous studies have
   considered diet planning a combinatorial optimization problem to generate
   solutions that satisfy a diet s nutritional requirements . however , this
   approach does not consider the composition of diets , which is critical for
   diet recipients to accept and enjoy menus with high nutritional quality .
   without this consideration , feasible solutions for diet planning could not
   be provided in practice . this suggests the necessity of diet planning with
   machine learning , which extracts implicit composition patterns from real
   diet data and applies these patterns when generating diets . this work is
   original research that defines diet planning as a machine learning problem .
   we describe diets as sequence data and solve a controllable sequence
   generation problem . specifically , we develop the teacher forced reinforce
   algorithm to connect neural machine translation and reinforcement learning
   for composition compliance with nutrition enhancement in diet generation .
   through a real world application to diet planning for children , we
   validated the superiority of our work over the traditional combinatorial
   optimization and modern machine learning approaches , as well as human ( i .
   e . , professional dietitians ) performance . in addition , we construct and
   open the databases of menus and diets to motivate and promote further
   research and development of diet planning with machine learning . we believe
   this work with data science will contribute to solving economic and social
   problems associated with diet planning
DE controllable sequence generation; diet planning; machine learning;
   reinforce; teacher-forcing
ID combinatorial optimization; computer aided language translation; data
   mining; data science; learning systems; reinforcement learning; turing
   machines; combinatorial optimization problems; composition patterns;
   feasible solution; machine learning problem; machine translations;
   nutritional qualities; research and development; sequence generation;
   nutrition

---

UT 1698
AR Bae J, 2017, TURK ONL J EDU TECH, V2017, P890
TI The rising influence of artificial intelligence and algorithms in food
   science
AU Bae J
TC 1
SO TURK ONL J EDU TECH
PY 2017
AB while deep learning models and hence artificial intelligence have progressed
   throughout past decades via various breakthroughs the boltzmann machine and
   neural networking it may seem that the technology fixates upon programs such
   as visual and auditory recognition and basic problem solving . however ,
   thanks to deep learning s wide range of compatibility , the technology is
   now being vigorously explored by experts in the field of the food industry .
   this paper will address the development and general structure of the deep
   learning mechanism , with a particular focus on its applications in food
   science . furthermore , it will discuss the current and future role of
   artificial intelligence in the food industry , and how this prestigious
   technology may be developed to profoundly change the methods of consumption
   and well being in the 21st century markets and homes . the turkish online
   journal of educational technology .

---

UT 1699
AR Phat TV, 2017, PROC - INT CONF KNOWL SYST ENG KSE, V2017-January, P124, DOI
   10.1109/KSE.2017.8119446
TI Vietnamese food recognition using convolutional neural networks
AU Phat TV; Tien DX; Pham Q; Pham N; Nguyen BT
TC 10
SO PROC - INT CONF KNOWL SYST ENG KSE
PY 2017
AB in this paper , we investigate vietnamese food recognition problem and
   compare different methods by using traditional hand crafted features and
   convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) . to this aim , we first introduce
   one dataset including five popular vietnamese dishes with more than 2000
   images . we then conduct various experiments on that dataset and analyze the
   performance of each approach . the experiments show that cnns outperform the
   hand crafted techniques by a significant margin
DE cnn; food recognition; hog; sift; suft
ID neural networks; systems engineering; convolutional neural network; food
   recognition; sift; suft; vietnamese; convolution

---

UT 1700
AR Pinzón-Arenas JO, 2020, INT J ELECTR COMPUT ENG, V10, P1017, DOI
   10.11591/ijece.v10i1.pp1017-1026
TI ResSeg: Residual encoder-decoder convolutional neural network for food
   segmentation
AU Pinzón-Arenas JO; Jiménez-Moreno R; Pachón-Suescún CG
TC 12
SO INT J ELECTR COMPUT ENG
PY 2020
AB this paper presents the implementation and evaluation of different
   convolutional neural network architectures focused on food segmentation . to
   perform this task , it is proposed the recognition of 6 categories , among
   which are the main food groups ( protein , grains , fruit , and vegetables )
   and two additional groups , rice and drink or juice . in addition , to make
   the recognition more complex , it is decided to test the networks with food
   dishes already started , i . e . during different moments , from its serving
   to its finishing , in order to verify the capability to see when there is no
   more food on the plate . finally , a comparison is made between the two best
   resulting networks , a segnet with architecture vgg 16 and a network
   proposed in this work , called residual segmentation convolutional neural
   network or resseg , with which accuracies greater than 90 % and interception
   over union greater than 75 % were obtained . this demonstrates the ability ,
   not only of segnet architectures for food segmentation , but the use of
   residual layers to improve the contour of the segmentation and segmentation
   of complex distribution or initiated of food dishes , opening the field of
   application of this type of networks to be implemented in feeding assistants
   or in automated restaurants , including also for dietary control for the
   amount of food consumed
DE encoder-decoder cnn; food recognition; residual layers; segnet; semantic
   segmentation

---

UT 1701
AR Marvin HJP, 2022, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V120, P344, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2022.01.020
TI Digitalisation and Artificial Intelligence for sustainable food systems
AU Marvin HJP; Bouzembrak Y; van der Fels-Klerx HJ; Kempenaar C; Veerkamp R;
   Chauhan A; Stroosnijder S; Top J; Simsek-Senel G; Vrolijk H; Knibbe WJ;
   Zhang L/7; Boom R; Tekinerdogan B
TC 129
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB background : the european commission ( ec ) has launched the european green
   deal communication , setting out the path for a fundamental transformation
   of europe . key element in this policy is a fully sustainable food system
   outlined in the farm to fork strategy . such strategy requires a systems
   approach in which all aspects related to the production and consumption of
   sufficient and healthy food are considered , including economic ,
   environmental ( climate , ecosystems ) and social aspects . scope and
   approach : here , we present the systems approach concept for food
   production , following the farm to fork principle as embraced by the ec ,
   and elaborate on how digitalisation and artificial intelligence ( ai ) can
   solve the challenges that a sustainable food system imposes . key findings
   and conclusions : we present a number of research and innovation challenges
   and illustrate these by some specific examples . it is concluded that ai and
   digitalisation show great potential to support the transition toward a
   sustainable food system . this development will impact the roles and
   interactions of the actors in the entire value chain from farmers to
   consumers . policy recommendations are made for a successful future
   implementation of ai in sustainable food production
DE big data; digital twins; internet of things; machine learning; systems
   approach

---

UT 1702
AR Nogales A, 2022, FOOD CONTROL, V134, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2021.108697
TI A comparison of neural and non-neural machine learning models for food
   safety risk prediction with European Union RASFF data
AU Nogales A; Díaz-Morón R; García-Tejedor ÁJ
TC 29
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2022
AB european union launched the rasff portal in 1977 to ensure cross border
   monitoring and a quick reaction when public health risks are detected in the
   food chain . there are not enough resources available to guarantee a
   comprehensive inspection policy , but rasff data has enormous potential as a
   preventive tool . however , there are few studies of food and feed risk
   issues prediction and none with rasff data . although deep learning models
   are good prediction systems , it must be confirmed whether in this field
   they behave better than other machine learning techniques . the importance
   of categorical variables encoding as input for numerical models should be
   specially studied . results in this paper show that deep learning with
   entity embedding is the best combination , with accuracies of 86.81 % ,
   82.31 % , and 88.94 % in each of the three stages of the simplified rasff
   process in which the tests were carried out . however , the random forest
   models with one hot encoding offer only slightly worse results , so it seems
   that in the quality of the results the coding has more weight than the
   prediction technique . our work also demonstrates that the use of
   probabilistic predictions ( an advantage of neural models ) can also be used
   to optimize the number of inspections that can be carried out
DE deep learning; entity embedding; food and feed safety; machine learning;
   prediction; random forest

---

UT 1703
AR Tretola M, 2017, J FOOD QUAL, V2017, DOI 10.1155/2017/1064580
TI Former food products safety evaluation: Computer vision as an innovative
   approach for the packaging remnants detection
AU Tretola M; Ottoboni M; Di Rosa AR; Giromini C; Fusi E; Rebucci R; Leone F;
   Dell’Orto V; Chiofalo V; Pinotti L
TC 39
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2017
AB former food products ( ffps ) represent a way by which leftovers from the
   food industry ( e . g . , biscuits , bread , breakfast cereals , chocolate
   bars , pasta , savory snacks , and sweets ) are converted into ingredients
   for the feed industry , thereby keeping food losses in the food chain . ffps
   represent an alternative source of nutrients for animal feeding . however ,
   beyond their nutritional value , the use of ffps in animal feeding implies
   also safety issues , such as those related to the presence of packaging
   remnants . these contaminants might reside in ffp during food processing ( e
   . g . , collection , unpacking , mixing , grinding , and drying ) . nowadays
   , artificial senses are widely used for the detection of foreign material in
   food and all of them involve computer vision . computer vision technique
   provides detailed pixel based characterizations of colors spectrum of food
   products , suitable for quality evaluation . the application of computer
   vision for a rapid qualitative screening of ffp s safety features , in
   particular for the detection of packaging remnants , has been recently
   tested . this paper presents the basic principles , the advantages , and
   disadvantages of the computer vision method with an evaluation of its
   potential in the detection of packaging remnants in ffp . 2017 marco tretola
   et al .
ID animals; cereal products; food processing; food products; food safety;
   packaging; quality control; thermal processing ( foods ); alternative
   source; computer vision techniques; foreign materials; innovative
   approaches; nutritional value; qualitative screening; quality evaluation;
   safety evaluations; computer vision

---

UT 1704
AR Grace K, 2016, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9969 LNAI, P154, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-47096-2_11
TI Combining CBR and deep learning to generate surprising recipe designs
AU Grace K; Maher ML; Wilson DC; Najjar NA
TC 21
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2016
AB this paper presents a dual cycle cbr model in the domain of recipe
   generation . the model combines the strengths of deep learning and
   similarity based retrieval to generate recipes that are novel and valuable (
   i . e . they are creative ) . the first cycle generates abstract
   descriptions which we call ' design concepts ' by synthesizing expectations
   from the entire case base , while the second cycle uses those concepts to
   retrieve and adapt objects . we define these conceptual object
   representations as an abstraction over complete cases on which expectations
   can be formed , allowing objects to be evaluated for surprisingness ( the
   peak level of unexpectedness in the object , given the case base ) and
   plausibility ( the overall similarity of the object to those in the case
   base ) . the paper presents a prototype implementation of the model , and
   demonstrates its ability to generate objects that are simultaneously
   plausible and surprising , in addition to fitting a user query . this
   prototype is then compared to a traditional single cycle cbr system
ID artificial intelligence; computer science; computers; cbr systems; deep
   learning; design concept; nocv1; object representations; over-complete;
   prototype implementations; similarity-based retrievals; single cycle; case
   based reasoning

---

UT 1705
AR Xiong Y/1, 2021, J ELECTROCHEM SOC, V168, DOI 10.1149/1945-7111/ac1699
TI An Odor Recognition Algorithm of Electronic Noses Based on Convolutional
   Spiking Neural Network for Spoiled Food Identification
AU Xiong Y/1; Chen Y; Chen C/3; Wei X; Xue Y/2; Wan H; Wang P
TC 36
SO J ELECTROCHEM SOC
PY 2021
AB the electronic nose is an odor detection instrument utilizing the bionic
   olfactory theory , and usually consisting of a gas sensor array and an odor
   recognition algorithm . traditional odor recognition algorithms for
   electronic noses suffer from cumbersome feature extraction steps and low
   recognition accuracy , and some new algorithms based on deep learning have
   the disadvantage of insufficient computational efficiency . to solve these
   problems , a novel odor recognition algorithm based on convolutional spiking
   neural network is proposed . the network model of this algorithm is composed
   of convolutional spiking layers , fully connected spiking layers , and skip
   connections , which combines the feature extraction ability of the residual
   convolutional neural network and the computational efficiency of the spiking
   neural network . we also established a spoiled food mixed odor dataset and a
   rotten fruit odor dataset for evaluation of our method and several other
   classic algorithms . experimental results show that our algorithm achieves
   average test accuracy of 84.5 % and 88.6 % on these two datasets ,
   respectively , and has better recognition capability and computational
   efficiency than several other classic algorithms , which indicates that our
   algorithm can efficiently identify the spoilage odor in food . 2021 the
   electrochemical society ( ' ecs ' ) . published on behalf of ecs by iop
   publishing limited .
ID computation theory; convolution; convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; efficiency; electronic equipment; electronic nose; extraction;
   feature extraction; multilayer neural networks; odors; spoilage; classic
   algorithm; network modeling; odor detection; odor recognition; recognition
   accuracy; spiking neural networks; test accuracy; computational efficiency

---

UT 1706
AR Mezgec S, 2017, NUTR, V9, DOI 10.3390/nu9070657
TI Nutrinet: A deep learning food and drink image recognition system for
   dietary assessment
AU Mezgec S; Seljak BK/1
TC 239
SO NUTR
PY 2017
AB automatic food image recognition systems are alleviating the process of food
   intake estimation and dietary assessment . however , due to the nature of
   food images , their recognition is a particularly challenging task , which
   is why traditional approaches in the field have achieved a low
   classification accuracy . deep neural networks have outperformed such
   solutions , and we present a novel approach to the problem of food and drink
   image detection and recognition that uses a newly defined deep convolutional
   neural network architecture , called nutrinet . this architecture was tuned
   on a recognition dataset containing 225,953 512 512 pixel images of 520
   different food and drink items from a broad spectrum of food groups , on
   which we achieved a classification accuracy of 86.72 % , along with an
   accuracy of 94.47 % on a detection dataset containing 130,517 images . we
   also performed a real world test on a dataset of self acquired images ,
   combined with images from parkinson s disease patients , all taken using a
   smartphone camera , achieving a top five accuracy of 55 % , which is an
   encouraging result for real world images . additionally , we tested nutrinet
   on the university of milano bicocca 2016 ( unimib2016 ) food image dataset ,
   on which we improved upon the provided baseline recognition result . an
   online training component was implemented to continually fine tune the food
   and drink recognition model on new images . the model is being used in
   practice as part of a mobile app for the dietary assessment of parkinson s
   disease patients
DE deep convolutional neural networks; deep learning; drink detection; drink
   recognition; food detection; food recognition; nutrinet; parkinsons disease
ID algorithms; beverages; computer simulation; food; image processing computer-
   assisted; internet; machine learning; mobile applications; neural networks (
   computer ); nutrition assessment; smartphone; article; energy drink; food;
   food intake; human; mobile application; nerve cell network; nutritional
   assessment; nutritional status; parkinson disease; recognition; support
   vector machine; training; algorithm; artificial neural network; beverage;
   computer simulation; image processing; internet; machine learning;
   smartphone

---

UT 1707
AR Panda SK, 2020, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V159, P465, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-13-9282-5_44
TI Minimizing Food Wastage Using Machine Learning: A Novel Approach
AU Panda SK; Dwivedi M
TC 38
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB `` world is hungry , ' there may exist many reasons to support this
   statement but one big reason to hold this statement is wastage of food in
   different organizations every day . from the statistics of the global hunger
   index ( ghi ) , approximately 192 million people sleep with hunger at every
   night . these statistics would increase if proper steps are not considered
   to stop this . therefore , it is our responsibility to save our resources
   for the betterment for tomorrow . this paper presents the supervised machine
   learning technique for minimizing food wastage . here , we have provided the
   two classification algorithms which are naive bayes and decision tree to
   build a best model which can be used for this application
DE decision tree; naive bayes; supervised learning
ID decision trees; intelligent computing; supervised learning; best model;
   classification algorithm; food wastages; supervised machine learning;
   machine learning

---

UT 1708
AR Deng X, 2021, ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V12, P513, DOI 10.1146/annurev-
   food-071720-024112
TI Emerging Applications of Machine Learning in Food Safety
AU Deng X; Cao S; Horn AL
TC 172
SO ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2021
AB food safety continues to threaten public health . machine learning holds
   potential in leveraging large , emerging data sets to improve the safety of
   the food supply and mitigate the impact of food safety incidents . foodborne
   pathogen genomes and novel data streams , including text , transactional ,
   and trade data , have seen emerging applications enabled by a machine
   learning approach , such as prediction of antibiotic resistance , source
   attribution of pathogens , and foodborne outbreak detection and risk
   assessment . in this article , we provide a gentle introduction to machine
   learning in the context of food safety and an overview of recent
   developments and applications . with many of these applications still in
   their nascence , general and domain specific pitfalls and challenges
   associated with machine learning have begun to be recognized and addressed ,
   which are critical to prospective use and future deployment of large data
   sets and their associated machine learning models for food safety
   applications
ID disease outbreaks; food safety; foodborne diseases; humans; machine
   learning; prospective studies; data streams; food supply; machine learning;
   risk assessment; safety engineering; turing machines; antibiotic resistance;
   domain-specific; emerging applications; foodborne pathogens; machine
   learning approaches; machine learning models; outbreak detection; source
   attribution; epidemic; food poisoning; food safety; human; machine learning;
   prospective study; food safety

---

UT 1709
AR Wymelbeke-Delannoy VV, 2022, NUTR, V14, DOI 10.3390/nu14010221
TI A Cross-Sectional Reproducibility Study of a Standard Camera Sensor Using
   Artificial Intelligence to Assess Food Items: The FoodIntech Project
AU Wymelbeke-Delannoy VV; Juhel C; Bole H; Sow A-K; Guyot C; Belbaghdadi F;
   Brousse O; Paindavoine M
TC 14
SO NUTR
PY 2022
AB having a system to measure food consumption is important to establish
   whether individual nutritional needs are being met in order to act quickly
   and to minimize the risk of undernutrition . here , we tested a smartphone
   based food consumption assessment system named foodintech . foodintech ,
   which is based on ai using deep neural networks ( dnn ) , automatically
   recognizes food items and dishes and calculates food leftovers using an
   image based approach , i . e . , it does not require human intervention to
   assess food consumption . this method uses one input and one output images
   by means of the detection and synchronization of a qrcode located on the
   meal tray . the dnn are then used to process the images and implement food
   detection , segmentation and recognition . overall , 22,544 situations
   analyzed from 149 dishes were used to test the reliability of this method .
   the reliability of the ai results , based on the central intra class
   correlation coefficient values , appeared to be excellent for 39 % of the
   dishes ( n = 58 dishes ) and good for 19 % ( n = 28 ) . the implementation
   of this method is an effective way to improve the recognition of dishes and
   it is possible , with a sufficient number of photos , to extend the
   capabilities of the tool to new dishes and foods
DE artificial intelligence; machine learning; mobile phone images; portion
   evaluation; reliability
ID artificial intelligence; cross-sectional studies; food analysis; humans;
   image processing computer-assisted; neural networks computer; nutrition
   assessment; reproducibility of results; smartphone; algorithm; article;
   artificial intelligence; correlation coefficient; cross-sectional study;
   deep neural network; food analysis; food intake; food waste; foodintech;
   image analysis; image segmentation; meal size; medical photography; portion
   size; reliability; reproducibility; segmentation algorithm; software; human;
   image processing; nutritional assessment; procedures; reproducibility;
   smartphone

---

UT 1710
AR Yin Y-G, 2009, JILIN DAXUE XUEBAO (GONGXUEBAN), V39, P344
TI Rapid method for enumeration of Escherichia coli in food based on computer
   vision
AU Yin Y-G; Ding Y
TC 3
SO JILIN DAXUE XUEBAO (GONGXUEBAN)
PY 2009
AB the speciality that the escherichia coli can ferment lactose to produce acid
   which can produce depositions and make the indicator s color changed was
   utilized , an automatic detection system for enumeration of escherichia coli
   in food based on color feature recognition technology was designed and the
   color change degree after incubating for 16 h was used to judge the
   escherichia coli counts in the detection samples . the system can
   automatically extract the h , i , s color vector to act as the input vector
   and transfer the trained bp neural network to get the escherichia coli
   counts . the experiments indicate that comparisons of counts of escherichia
   coli by the rapid automatic detection system and by the traditional method
   closed correlated . moreover , by using this rapid detection system , the
   escherichia coli in food accurately enumerate within 18 h , which is much
   shorter than the 6 days detection time by the traditional method , which
   will greatly improve the products sale quality .
DE artificial neural network; color feature recognition; escherichia coli rapid
   detection; food machinery; machine vision
ID backpropagation; color; computer vision; escherichia coli; machinery;
   sugars; artificial neural network; color feature recognition; color
   features; food machinery; machine vision; rapid detection; neural networks

---

UT 1711
AR Kwon DY, 2020, J ETHN FOOD, V7, DOI 10.1186/s42779-019-0040-4
TI Personalized diet oriented by artificial intelligence and ethnic foods
AU Kwon DY
TC 12
SO J ETHN FOOD
PY 2020
AB in the future , societies will endeavor to move beyond the framework of the
   industrial economy and the world will enter a new era marked by super aged
   populations , artificial intelligence ( ai ) , and the lifestyle economy .
   it is predicted that humanity will shift away from the industrial economy to
   a lifestyle economy where the main focus is human happiness . human thought
   and behavior is influenced by emotions and can not be explained entirely
   through rational decision making . accordingly , ai and other super
   connection technologies that drive big data and deep learning will
   facilitate the introduction of personalized and decentralized services ,
   which represent a shift away from the era of mass production ,
   centralization and automation . this means that more attention will be paid
   to designing unique lifestyles instead of production . in the future , super
   aged societies will no longer be steeped in individualism , and become more
   people centric . in such societies , obtaining an accurate understanding of
   people s noneun style ( other activities style beyond working as leisure ,
   play , and others ) and dietary style to deliver personalized foods
   conducive to healthy eating and healthy lifestyles will be of great
   importance . personalized diets will be developed based on structured data
   drawn from human genes , which do not change . however , unstructured data
   about epigenetics and microbiomes , which can be influenced by lifestyle and
   diet , will be important for designing personalized foods and lifestyles .
   diversity in foods is the most important factor in generating this
   unstructured data . because the responsibility for maintaining a healthy
   diet and lifestyle falls on individuals , developing personalized food and
   lifestyle products is an important step toward reaching the centenarian era
   . developing personalized diets requires technologies such as super
   connectivity , ai , and the internet of humans ( iohuman ) rather the
   internet of things ( iot ) , but researching these technologies is not a job
   for the food industry . technologies developed in other fields can be used
   in food science research , and these technologies fall under the umbrella of
   ' foodomics . ' such technologies include genetic analysis , whole genome
   sequence analysis , nutrigenomics , metabolomics , nutrigenetics ,
   nutriepigenetics , microbiome technology , sensomics , and culturomics , as
   well as ' sikdanomics . ' korea has a lot of potential when it comes to
   personalized foods and diets . because korea has a long agricultural history
   , the country has a wide range of natural foods , and many ways to prepare
   and eat these foods . this means that korean foods , in particular
   traditional korean foods , are well positioned to meet the demand for
   diversity in personalized foods . in a super aged era characterized by ai ,
   korea has a good chance of becoming a country where people can live to 100
   in good health and also has the potential to be a global leader in
   personalized diets . to achieve this , food scientists and medical
   professionals need to work together to convince the korean government to
   lead the industry in the right direction
DE artificial intelligence ( ai ); epigenetics; foodomics; fourth industrial
   revolution; personalized diet

---

UT 1712
AR Silva JGR, 2017, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V10404, P385, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-62392-4_28
TI A differential evolution algorithm for computing caloric-restricted diets -
   Island-based model
AU Silva JGR; Carvalho IA; Goliatt L; da Fonseca Vieira V; Xavier CR
TC 1
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2017
AB a rich and balanced diet , combined with physical exercises , is the most
   common and efficient manner to achieve a healthy body . since the classic
   diet problem proposed by stigler , several works in the literature proposed
   to compute a diet that respects the nutritional needs of an individual .
   this work deals with a variation of the diet problem , called caloric
   restricted diet problem ( crdp ) . the crdp objective is to find a reduced
   caloric diet that also respects the nutritional needs of an individual ,
   thus enabling weight loss in a healthy way . in this paper we propose an
   island based differential evolution algorithm , a distributed metaheuristic
   that evolves a set of populations semi isolated from each other .
   computational experiments showed that this island based structure
   outperforms its non distributed implementation , generating a greater
   variety of diets with small calorie count
DE calories; diet problem; differential evolution; islands model; obesity
ID nutrition; optimization; calories; computational experiment; differential
   evolution; differential evolution algorithms; distributed implementation;
   metaheuristic; obesity; physical exercise; evolutionary algorithms

---

UT 1713
AR Nosratabadi S, 2021, AGRIC, V11, DOI 10.3390/agriculture11050408
TI Prediction of food production using machine learning algorithms of
   multilayer perceptron and anfis
AU Nosratabadi S; Ardabili S; Lakner Z; Mako C; Mosavi A
TC 104
SO AGRIC
PY 2021
AB advancing models for accurate estimation of food production is essential for
   policymaking and managing national plans of action for food security . this
   research proposes two machine learning models for the prediction of food
   production . the adaptive network based fuzzy inference system ( anfis ) and
   multilayer perceptron ( mlp ) methods are used to advance the prediction
   models . in the present study , two variables of livestock production and
   agricultural production were considered as the source of food production .
   three variables were used to evaluate livestock production , namely
   livestock yield , live animals , and animal slaughtered , and two variables
   were used to assess agricultural production , namely agricultural production
   yields and losses . iran was selected as the case study of the current study
   . therefore , time series data related to livestock and agricultural
   productions in iran from 1961 to 2017 have been collected from the faostat
   database . first , 70 % of this data was used to train anfis and mlp , and
   the remaining 30 % of the data was used to test the models . the results
   disclosed that the anfis model with generalized bell shaped ( gbell ) built
   in membership functions has the lowest error level in predicting food
   production . the findings of this study provide a suitable tool for
   policymakers who can use this model and predict the future of food
   production to provide a proper plan for the future of food security and food
   supply for the next generations
DE agricultural production; artificial intelligence; big data; data science;
   data-driven decision making; deep learning; food demand; food production;
   forecasting; machine learning; prediction

---

UT 1714
AR Banerjee A, 2019, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN ICCCI, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCI.2019.8821871
TI Food Recommendation using Machine Learning for Chronic Kidney Disease
   Patients
AU Banerjee A; Noor A; Siddiqua N; Uddin MN
TC 13
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN ICCCI
PY 2019
AB chronic kidney disease ( ckd , also known as the chronicrenal disease ) is a
   communal problem to the public with an escalating in either technologically
   advanced or advancing countries . 10 % of the populations internationally
   are diagnosed with the disease of chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) , and many
   deaths each day because of poor access to proper treatment or absence of
   awareness . if necessary , precaution is not taken at the right time the
   treatment gets complicated and possibly reach the final stage . thus , to
   provide a better dietary solution our paper proposes a model to basis of
   their potassium level in blood . classification of the patients is
   implemented recommend food for patients suffering from kidney disease on the
   using weka and then further using query based matching we recommended food
   for the identified levels based on the seriousness of the disease
DE blood potassium levels; chronic kidney disease; diet plans; machine
   learning; potassium zone
ID blood; learning systems; chronic kidney disease; diet plan; kidney disease;
   machine learning

---

UT 1715
AR Wang J/1, 2017, FOOD CONTROL, V73, P223, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2016.09.048
TI Food safety pre-warning system based on data mining for a sustainable food
   supply chain
AU Wang J/1; Yue H
TC 192
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2017
AB in recent years , the food safety incidents happened frequently in china ,
   and then the problems related to food quality and safety have attracted more
   and more social attention . considering the concern with regard to quality
   sustainability in food supply chain , many companies have developed a real
   time data monitoring system to ensure products quality in the supply chain
   network . in this paper , we proposed a food safety pre warning system ,
   adopting association rule mining and internet of things technology , to
   timely monitor all the detection data of the whole supply chain and
   automatically pre warn . the aim of pre warning system is to help managers
   in food manufacturing firm to find food safety risk in advance , and to give
   some decision support information to maintain the quality and safety of food
   products . a case study of a dairy producer was conducted , and the results
   showed that the proposed pre warning system can effectively identify safety
   risks and accurately determine whether a warning should be issued ,
   depending on the expert analysis when an abnormality is detected by the
   system . in addition , implications of the proposed approach were discussed
   , and suggestions for future work were outlined
DE association rule; food safety; food supply chain; pre-warning system

---

UT 1716
AR Ekici B, 2022, ENERGIES, V15, DOI 10.3390/en15020660
TI Optimising High-Rise Buildings for Self-Sufficiency in Energy Consumption
   and Food Production Using Artificial Intelligence: Case of Europoint Complex
   in Rotterdam
AU Ekici B; Turkcan OFSF; Turrin M; Sariyildiz IS; Tasgetiren MF
TC 31
SO ENERGIES
PY 2022
AB the increase in global population , which negatively affects energy
   consumption , co2 emissions , and arable land , necessitates designing
   sustainable habitation alternatives . self sufficient high rise buildings ,
   which integrate ( electricity ) generation and efficient usage of resources
   with dense habitation , can be a sustainable solution for future
   urbanization . this paper focuses on transforming europoint towers in
   rotterdam into self sufficient buildings considering energy consumption and
   food production ( lettuce crops ) using artificial intelligence . design
   parameters consist of the number of farming floors , shape , and the
   properties of the proposed facade skin that includes shading devices . nine
   thousand samples are collected from various floor levels to predict self
   sufficiency criteria using artificial neural networks ( ann ) . optimization
   problems with 117 decision variables are formulated using 45 ann models that
   have very high prediction accuracies . 13 optimization algorithms are used
   for an in detail investigation of self sufficiency at the building scale ,
   and potential sufficiency at the neighborhood scale . results indicate that
   100 % and 43.7 % self sufficiencies could be reached for lettuce crops and
   electricity , respectively , for three buildings with 1800 residents . at
   the neighborhood scale , lettuce production could be sufficient for 27,000
   people with a decrease of self sufficiency in terms of energy use of up to
   11.6 % . consequently , this paper discusses the potentials and the
   improvements for self sufficient high rise buildings
DE artificial intelligence; bipv; building performance simulation;
   computational optimization; energy consumption; machine learning;
   metropolis; self-sufficiency; vertical farming
ID crops; electric power utilization; floors; machine learning; neural
   networks; optimization; tall buildings; bipv; building performance
   simulations; computational optimization; energy consumption; food
   production; high rise building; metropolis; rotterdam; self-sufficiency;
   vertical farming; lettuce

---

UT 1717
AR Al-Talib GAA, 2022, AIP CONF PROC, V2386, DOI 10.1063/5.0067134
TI Comparative studying for extracting food contents using machine learning
   algorithms
AU Al-Talib GAA; Saeed YY
TC 1
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2022
AB classifying foods and analyzing their contents can help people use a certain
   healthy diet and avoid some foods depending on a person s health condition
   and his culture of that community . for the purpose of classifying foods and
   determining their components accurately and efficiently , it has been
   suggested that using artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms
   can help , so , it has been used by researchers in various studies
   andvarious ways , either by ways of identifying ingredients by recognizing
   and classifying images or label recognition on food envelopes . in this
   paper we present a study on methods and algorithms used for the purpose of
   food classification by artificial intelligence and machine learning

---

UT 1718
AR Sari YA, 2021, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT INFORMATICS ENG IT-BASED DIGIT IND
   INNOV WELF SOC IC2IE, P24, DOI 10.1109/IC2IE53219.2021.9649045
TI Leftovers Food Recognition using Deep Neural Network and Regression Approach
   for Objective Visual Analysis Estimation
AU Sari YA; Adinugroho S; Maligan JM; Candra EN; Utaminingrum F; Nur'aini N
TC 6
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT INFORMATICS ENG IT-BASED DIGIT IND INNOV WELF SOC
   IC2IE
PY 2021
AB understanding the nutritional intake is essential for basic life since every
   human being must have insight into what food they have eaten . a
   nutritionist can help in guiding what the body should consume , where each
   patient may have different diet and treatment patterns . one indicator used
   by dietitians or nutritionists is by estimating the leftovers consumed by
   the patient . they measure it by visually named comstock method , which is
   divided into scales . this method s drawback is subjective from one another
   dietitians or nutritionists so that an objective assessment with a machine
   learning based approach is acquired . this paper proposes a novel stage of
   defining food recognition and measuring its leftovers using visual analysis
   . the food image recognition method used cnn to estimate food waste using
   pixel based afle and regression approach to fit into six scales . the best
   result of food image recognition was 92.5 % using dropout 0.3 with image
   augmentation and relu activation function , while the accuracy result of
   visual estimation application compared to experts was 85 % . it is proved
   that the combined proposed algorithm is robust for the application of
   recognizing and estimating leftovers
DE comstock visual analysis; food recognition; leftovers estimation
ID deep neural networks; nutrition; patient treatment; activation functions;
   comstock visual analyze; food image; food recognition; food waste; human
   being; leftover estimation; objective assessment; recognition methods;
   visual analysis; image recognition

---

UT 1719
AR Pujahari RM, 2022, ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV, P216, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-5141-0.ch012
TI Applications of machine learning in food safety
AU Pujahari RM; Khan R
TC 2
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV
PY 2022
AB food safety has a major correlation with health related to the public .
   machine learning can be a great help for large volume and emerging data sets
   to enhance the safety of the food supply and minimize the impact of food
   safety incidents . pathogen genomes which are food borne and unique data
   streams , transactional , including text , and trade data , have ample
   emerging applications initiated by a machine learning approach , like
   prediction of antibiotic resistance , source related pathogens , and
   detection of food borne outbreak and also assessment of risk . in this
   chapter , a gentle introduction of machine learning in the pretext of food
   safety and a detailed overview of various developments and applications has
   been enumerated

---

UT 1720
AR Subhi MA, 2019, IEEE EMBS CONF BIOMED ENG SCI IECBES - PROC, P284, DOI
   10.1109/IECBES.2018.08626720
TI A deep convolutional neural network for food detection and recognition
AU Subhi MA; Ali SMd
TC 62
SO IEEE EMBS CONF BIOMED ENG SCI IECBES - PROC
PY 2019
AB in this paper , we propose a new deep convolutional neural network ( cnn )
   configuration to detect and recognize local food images . various types of
   food with different color and texture reflect the fact that the food image
   recognition is considered a challenging task . however , deep learning has
   been widely used as an efficient image recognition method , and cnn is the
   contemporary approach for deep learning to be implemented . cnn has been
   optimized to the tasks of food detection and recognition with few
   modifications . we present a new dataset of the most consumed local
   malaysian food items which was collected from publicly available internet
   sources including but not limited to , image search engines . for evaluation
   of recognition performance , cnn achieved significantly higher accuracy than
   traditional approaches with manually extracted features . additionally , it
   was found out that convolution masks show that the features of food color
   dominate the features map . for the process of food detection , cnn also
   exhibited considerably higher accuracy than other conventional methods
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food detection; food
   recognition
ID biomedical engineering; convolution; deep learning; image recognition;
   neural networks; search engines; textures; color and textures; conventional
   methods; convolutional neural network; food detection; image search engine;
   internet sources; recognition methods; traditional approaches; deep neural
   networks

---

UT 1721
AR Zhang J/1, 2020, J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT, DOI
   10.1007/s12652-020-01750-4
TI Data mining model for food safety incidents based on structural analysis and
   semantic similarity
AU Zhang J/1; Chen M; Hu E; Wu L
TC 8
SO J AMBIENT INTELL HUMANIZ COMPUT
PY 2020
AB food safety is of vital interest for public health and the stability of
   society . in this paper , we analyzed the characteristics of food safety
   incidents ( fsis ) , including spatial distribution , food categories , risk
   factors , and supply chain links , reported by mainstream media in china .
   based on our analysis , we constructed a semantic template for text data
   related to fsis . furthermore , we introduced a multi layer , multi level
   semantic structure of rank ( mmss rank ) algorithm to measure the similarity
   between collected food safety data and the semantic template . we then
   calculated the overall scores ( i . e . , text layer weight , semantic
   template weight , and keyword density matrix ) and selected an appropriate
   threshold to determine the accuracy of the fsi data . results showed that ,
   compared with traditional methods , mmss rank is an efficient and robust
   method for identifying large scale fsi data with higher accuracy and recall
   rate
DE data mining model; food safety incidents; semantic analysis
ID food safety; safety engineering; semantics; supply chains; data mining
   models; density matrix; mainstream media; robust methods; semantic analysis;
   semantic similarity; semantic structures; semantic templates; data mining

---

UT 1722
AR Debska B, 2011, ANAL CHIM ACTA, V705, P283, DOI 10.1016/j.aca.2011.06.033
TI Application of artificial neural network in food classification
AU Debska B; Guzowska-Świder B
TC 114
SO ANAL CHIM ACTA
PY 2011
AB artificial neural network ( ann ) classifiers have been successfully
   implemented for various quality inspection and grading tasks of diverse food
   products . ann are very good pattern classifiers because of their ability to
   learn patterns that are not linearly separable and concepts dealing with
   uncertainty , noise and random events . in this research , the ann was used
   to build the classification model based on the relevant features of beer .
   samples of the same brand of beer but with varying manufacturing dates ,
   originating from miscellaneous manufacturing lots , have been represented in
   the multidimensional space by data vectors , which was an assembly of 12
   features ( % of alcohol , ph , % of co 2 etc . ) . the classification has
   been performed for two subsets , the first that included samples of good
   quality beer and the other containing samples of unsatisfactory quality .
   ann techniques allowed the discrimination between qualities of beer samples
   with up to 100 % of correct classifications
DE classification; food; neural networks
ID algorithms; beer; food analysis; neural networks ( computer ); beer; carbon
   dioxide; classification ( of information ); food products; manufacture;
   vector spaces; alcohol; carbon dioxide; artificial neural network; beer
   samples; classification models; data vectors; food; linearly separable;
   multi-dimensional space; pattern classifier; quality inspection; article;
   artificial neural network; beer; chemical composition; classification;
   controlled study; food classification; food quality; ph; priority journal;
   neural networks

---

UT 1723
AR Jahan N, 2022, IEEE INT HUMANIT TECHNOL CONF IHTC, P63, DOI
   10.1109/IHTC56573.2022.9998400
TI Machine Learning for Global Food Security: A Concise Overview
AU Jahan N; Akilan T; Phalke AR
TC 5
SO IEEE INT HUMANIT TECHNOL CONF IHTC
PY 2022
AB food insecurity has become one of the major global issues in present times .
   to overcome this , national and international communities have taken various
   strategies to ensure continuous food production , food supply , and food
   safety . however , achieving sustainable food security globally is an
   intricate task , as it depends on several factors , such as rising
   population , falling water tables , increasing soil erosion , lack of
   fertile cultivation land , climate change , flattening yields , unethical
   practices in agriculture , war threatened supply chain , and short space of
   time available for preparation . over the years , several research and
   development initiatives have been carried out to investigate these issues
   and mitigate them for moving toward a strong viable food security system .
   this paper provides a concise overview of the recent advancements in
   fighting against food insecurity using machine learning ( ml ) technologies
   from the perspectives of climate change , sufficient food production , food
   safety , and nutrient food supply . at last , this paper ends by
   highlighting the shortcomings of the current approaches and providing future
   direction in adopting ml for global food security
DE food insecurity; food security; machine learning
ID climate change; cultivation; food safety; groundwater; machine learning;
   supply chains; food insecurity; food production; food security; food safety;
   global food security; global issues; international community; machine
   learning; soil erosion; watertable; food supply

---

UT 1724
AR Sonwani E, 2022, PUBLIC HEAL, V9, DOI 10.3389/fpubh.2021.816226
TI An Artificial Intelligence Approach Toward Food Spoilage Detection and
   Analysis
AU Sonwani E; Bansal U; Alroobaea R; Baqasah AM; Hedabou M
TC 128
SO PUBLIC HEAL
PY 2022
AB aiming to increase the shelf life of food , researchers are moving toward
   new methodologies to maintain the quality of food as food grains are
   susceptible to spoilage due to precipitation , humidity , temperature , and
   a variety of other influences . as a result , efficient food spoilage
   tracking schemes are required to sustain food quality levels . we have
   designed a prototype to track food quality and to manage storage systems at
   home . initially , we have employed a convolutional neural network ( cnn )
   model to detect the type of fruit and veggies . then the proposed system
   monitors the gas emission level , humidity level , and temperature of fruits
   and veggies by using sensors and actuators to check the food spoilage level
   . this would additionally control the environment and avoid food spoilage
   wherever possible . additionally , the food spoilage level is informed to
   the customer by an alert message sent to their registered mobile numbers
   based on the freshness and condition of the food . the model employed proved
   to have an accuracy rate of 95 % . finally , the experiment is successful in
   increasing the shelf life of some categories of food by 2 days
DE food spoilage detection; food spoilage prevention; iomt; machine learning
   for health; sensors; smart system
ID artificial intelligence; food microbiology; temperature; artificial
   intelligence; food control; temperature

---

UT 1725
AR Manjunath P, 2019, PROC INT CONF I-SMAC IOT SOC MOB ANAL CLOUD I-SMAC, P93,
   DOI 10.1109/I-SMAC47947.2019.9032553
TI IoT Based Food Wastage Management System
AU Manjunath P; Shah PG
TC 9
SO PROC INT CONF I-SMAC IOT SOC MOB ANAL CLOUD I-SMAC
PY 2019
AB in recent times , food wastage is increasing at an unprecedented rate and
   creating a negative effect on the economic growth factors . this in turn
   creates a major impact on the agricultural processing industries . as food
   recycling is always remaining as a complex task , in this paper , we are
   focusing mainly on the food wastage measurement system in the office
   premises , where it provides real time input on the wastage of the food to
   the employee on a live computer based dashboard . this research work focuses
   mainly on the integration of the multiple locations present in the office
   premises . with this the proposed model , we can analyze and generate
   comparison reports to deliver a detailed insight to the higher management
   and employer about the real time food wastage analysis reports . this can be
   done in two methods either manual ( or ) automated by using internet of
   things ( iot ) as an underlying architecture . in general we are automating
   the process of the food wastages measurement in each office premises , where
   it can make sure that wastage is controlled by the analysis reports
   generated in a daily basis
DE clould computing; food wastage cloud computing; food wastage management;
   internet of things ( iot ); internet of things ( iot ) management; iot
   controled food wastage management; iot weight sensors; sensors
ID agricultural robots; economics; electronic waste; complex task; economic
   growths; food wastages; higher management; internet of things ( iot );
   management systems; measurement system; processing industry; internet of
   things

---

UT 1726
AR Nicolotti L, 2019, J AGRIC FOOD CHEM, V67, P4011, DOI
   10.1021/acs.jafc.9b00708
TI Characterization of Key Aroma Compounds in a Commercial Rum and an
   Australian Red Wine by Means of a New Sensomics-Based Expert System (SEBES)
   - An Approach to Use Artificial Intelligence in Determining Food Odor Codes
AU Nicolotti L; Mall V; Schieberle P
TC 80
SO J AGRIC FOOD CHEM
PY 2019
AB although to date more than 10 000 volatile compounds have been characterized
   in foods , a literature survey has previously shown that only 226 aroma
   compounds , assigned as key food odorants ( kfos ) , have been identified to
   actively contribute to the overall aromas of about 200 foods , such as
   beverages , meat products , cheeses , or baked goods . currently , a
   multistep analytical procedure involving the human olfactory system ,
   assigned as sensomics , represents a reference approach to identify and
   quantitate key odorants , as well as to define their sensory impact in the
   overall food aroma profile by so called aroma recombinates . despite its
   proven effectiveness , the sensomics approach is time consuming because
   repeated sensory analyzes , for example , by gc / olfactometry , are
   essential to assess the odor quality and potency of each single constituent
   in a given food distillate . therefore , the aim of the present study was to
   develop a fast , but sensomics based expert system ( sebes ) that is able to
   reliably predict the key aroma compounds of a given food in a limited number
   of runs without using the human olfactory system . first , a successful
   method for the quantitation of nearly 100 ( out of the 226 known kfos )
   components was developed in combination with a software allowing the direct
   use of the identification and quantitation data for the calculation of odor
   activity values ( oav . ratio of concentration to odor threshold ) . using a
   rum and a wine as examples , the quantitative results obtained by the new
   sebes method were compared to data obtained by applying an aroma extract
   dilution analysis and stable isotope dilution assays required in the
   classical sensomics approach . a good agreement of the results was found
   with differences below 20 % for most of the compounds considered . by
   implementing the gc gc data analysis software with the in house odor
   threshold database , odor activity values ( ratio of concentration to odor
   threshold ) were directly displayed in the software pane . the oavs
   calculated by the software were in very good agreement with data manually
   calculated on the basis of the data obtained by sida . thus , it was
   successfully shown that it is possible to characterize key food odorants
   with one single analytical platform and without using the human olfactory
   system , that is , by ' artificial intelligence smelling ' . 2019 american
   chemical society .
DE key food odorants; odor activity value; sebes; sensomics; sensomics-based
   expert system; stable isotope dilution assay
ID alcoholic beverages; artificial intelligence; australia; chromatography gas;
   expert systems; flavoring agents; humans; odorants; olfactometry; smell;
   volatile organic compounds; wine; artificial intelligence; expert systems;
   isotopes; sensory analysis; volatile organic compounds; wine; flavoring
   agent; fragrance; volatile organic compound; key food odorants; odor
   activity values; sebes; sensomics; stable isotope dilution assay; alcoholic
   beverage; analysis; artificial intelligence; australia; classification;
   economics; expert system; gas chromatography; human; odor; olfactometry;
   wine; odors

---

UT 1727
AR Kikuta Y, 2017, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, VPart F129477, P35, DOI
   10.1145/3106668.3106677
TI Approaches to food/non-food image classification using deep learning in
   Cookpad
AU Kikuta Y; Someya Y; Rybicki L
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2017
AB in this paper we report our approach to image classification , in particular
   to the food / non food image classification problem , as used by our cooking
   log product of cookpad inc . we augment our existing services with an
   architecture which includes a looselyconnected and asynchronous image
   analysis module . one challenge of the classification is that the non food
   class is very vast and varied and can only be defined in context . we find
   that having the nonfood class consist of multiple subclasses effectively
   improves both precision and recall by capturing different types of features
   in the images of that class
DE cloud computing; neural networks; supervised learning by classification; web
   services
ID cloud computing; cooking; deep learning; distributed computer systems;
   neural networks; thermal processing ( foods ); web services; in contexts;
   precision and recall; image classification

---

UT 1728
AR de Oliveira AN, 2022, FOOD CHEM, V398, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2022.133870
TI Tomato classification using mass spectrometry-machine learning technique: A
   food safety-enhancing platform
AU de Oliveira AN; Bolognini SRF; Navarro LC; Delafiori J; Sales GM; de
   Oliveira DN; Catharino RR
TC 26
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2022
AB food safety and quality assessment mechanisms are unmet needs that
   industries and countries have been continuously facing in recent years . our
   study aimed at developing a platform using machine learning algorithms to
   analyze mass spectrometry data for classification of tomatoes on organic and
   non organic . tomato samples were analyzed using silica gel plates and
   direct infusion electrospray ionization mass spectrometry technique .
   decision tree algorithm was tailored for data analysis . this model achieved
   92 % accuracy , 94 % sensitivity and 90 % precision in determining to which
   group each fruit belonged . potential biomarkers evidenced differences in
   treatment and production for each group
DE food safety; machine learning; mass spectrometry; tomato
ID algorithms; food safety; lycopersicon esculentum; machine learning;
   spectrometry mass electrospray ionization; accident prevention; decision
   trees; electrospray ionization; food safety; fruits; learning algorithms;
   machine learning; silica gel; biological marker; silica gel; assessment
   mechanism; food quality; food safety; machine learning algorithms; machine
   learning techniques; machine learning; organics; quality assessment; safety
   assessments; tomato; accuracy; algorithm; article; controlled study; data
   analysis; decision tree; electrospray mass spectrometry; food safety;
   machine learning; nonhuman; quantitative analysis; sensitivity analysis;
   tomato; chemistry; electrospray mass spectrometry; food safety; machine
   learning; mass spectrometry

---

UT 1729
AR Pouladzadeh P, 2017, ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL, V13, DOI
   10.1145/3063592
TI Mobile multi-food recognition using deep learning
AU Pouladzadeh P; Shirmohammadi S
TC 75
SO ACM TRANS MULTIMED COMPUT COMMUN APPL
PY 2017
AB in this article , we propose a mobile food recognition system that uses the
   picture of the food , taken by the user s mobile device , to recognize
   multiple food items in the same meal , such as steak and potatoes on the
   same plate , to estimate the calorie and nutrition of themeal . to speed up
   and make the processmore accurate , the user is asked to quickly identify
   the general area of the food by drawing a bounding circle on the food
   picture by touching the screen . the system then uses image processing and
   computational intelligence for food item recognition . the advantage of
   recognizing items , instead of the whole meal , is that the system can be
   trained with only single item food images . at the training stage , we first
   use region proposal algorithms to generate candidate regions and extract the
   convolutional neural network ( cnn ) features of all regions . second , we
   perform region mining to select positive regions for each food category
   using maximum cover by our proposed submodular optimization method . at the
   testing stage , we first generate a set of candidate regions . for each
   region , a classification score is computed based on its extracted cnn
   features and predicted food names of the selected regions . since fast
   response is one of the important parameters for the user who wants to eat
   the meal , certain heavy computational parts of the application are
   offloaded to the cloud . hence , the processes of food recognition and
   calorie estimation are performed in cloud server . our experiments ,
   conducted with the foodd dataset , show an average recall rate of 90.98 % ,
   precision rate of 93.05 % , and accuracy of 94.11 % compared to 50.8 % to 88
   % accuracy of other existing food recognition systems
DE cloud computing; deep learning; mobile food recognition
ID cloud computing; deep learning; mobile devices; neural networks; touch
   screens; calorie estimations; convolutional neural network; item
   recognition; mobile food recognition; positive region; proposal algorithm;
   recognition systems; submodular optimizations; image processing

---

UT 1730
AR Duggirala HJ, 2016, J MED INFORMATICS ASSOC, V23, P428, DOI
   10.1093/jamia/ocv063
TI Use of data mining at the food and drug administration
AU Duggirala HJ; Tonning JM; Smith E; Bright RA; Baker JD; Ball R; Bell C;
   Bright-Ponte SJ; Botsis T; Bouri K; Boyer M; Burkhart K; Steven Condrey G;
   Chen JJ; Chirtel S; Filice RW; Francis H; Jiang H/3; Levine J; Martin D;
   Oladipo T; O'Neill R; Palmer LAM; Paredes A; Rochester G; Sholtes D;
   Szarfman A; Wong H-L; Xu Z; Kass-Hout T
TC 141
SO J MED INFORMATICS ASSOC
PY 2016
AB objectives this article summarizes past and current data mining activities
   at the united states food and drug administration ( fda ) . target audience
   we address data miners in all sectors , anyone interested in the safety of
   products regulated by the fda ( predominantly medical products , food ,
   veterinary products and nutrition , and tobacco products ) , and those
   interested in fda activities . scope topics include routine and
   developmental data mining activities , short descriptions of mined fda data
   , advantages and challenges of data mining at the fda , and future
   directions of data mining at the fda
DE data mining; disproportionality analysis; pharmacovigilance
ID data mining; pharmacovigilance; product surveillance postmarketing; united
   states; united states food and drug administration; anti-obesity agent;
   antiparkinson agent; atypical antipsychotic agent; hydroxycut;
   hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme a reductase inhibitor; influenza vaccine;
   propylthiouracil; unclassified drug; valproic acid; amyotrophic lateral
   sclerosis; article; change point analysis; computer program; data mining;
   dietary supplement; drug safety; drug surveillance program; febrile
   convulsion; food and drug administration; geographic information system;
   human; hypophysis tumor; implantable cardioverter defibrillator; liver
   toxicity; medical dictionary for regulatory activities; medical literature;
   medical subject headings; medline; natural language processing;
   pancreatitis; pathological gambling; product development; product safety;
   proportional reporting ratio; reference database; rxnorm; statistical
   analysis; text mining; topic modeling; postmarketing surveillance;
   statistics and numerical data; united states

---

UT 1731
AR Topouroglou O, 2020, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P17, DOI 10.1145/3437120.3437265
TI Deep Learning Platforms in Food Recognition
AU Topouroglou O; Chaita T; Kiourt C; Moussiades L
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2020
AB image content prediction with novel deep learning approaches is a hot
   research topic for many scientific disciplines . image based food types
   recognition and their ingredients is a particularly challenging task , since
   food dishes are typically deformable objects , usually including complex
   semantics , which makes the task of defining their structure very difficult
   . in this paper we introduce a novel web based system that exploits
   commercial deep learning based platforms to predict image content for food
   recognition . in addition to that , the system combines the individual
   predictions of the platforms to produce more accurate results . also , we
   provide a short assessment of the chosen platforms to determine the most
   efficient one , in the domain of food recognition . the paper is concluded
   by highlighting the key features of platforms and the advantages of the new
   presented system
DE deep learning; deep learning platforms; food recognition
ID forecasting; optical character recognition; semantics; deformable object;
   hot research topics; image content; individual prediction; learning
   approach; learning platform; scientific discipline; web-based system; deep
   learning

---

UT 1732
AR Chen D-Y, 2018, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P61, DOI 10.1145/3299852.3299862
TI Handheld food localization and food recognition using convolutional neural
   network
AU Chen D-Y; Wang H-S
TC 0
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2018
AB in modern society , calories and carbohydrate intake leads to the obesities
   and diabetes sharply increases . for this reason , food recognition and its
   application attracted more and more attention . however , a variety of
   problem such as deformation and color difference because the difficulty in
   this task . especially , localization problem of food item is the most
   difficult , because the background always colorful and messy . in view of
   this , optical flow algorithm , which commonly used for foreground
   separation , is employed in this paper . based on the speed information ,
   handheld objects can be isolated from background according to the estimated
   optical flows . then , gradient and rgb color value of each pixel in an
   image are used for recognition . with the advantage of convolutional neural
   network , high stability and high tolerance , we finally get the remarkable
   precision in the experiment results , which show the feasibility of our
   proposed approach for real world environments
DE food recognition; handheld object
ID colorimetry; convolution; neural networks; optical data processing; optical
   flows; color difference; convolutional neural network; handhelds; its
   applications; localization problems; optical flow algorithm; real-world
   environments; speed information; medical image processing

---

UT 1733
AR Iheanacho CA, 2022, PROC INT CONF TECHNOL EDUC DEV CHANG NARRAT BUILD SECUR
   SOC DISRUPT TECHNOL ITED, DOI 10.1109/ITED56637.2022.10051387
TI Classification and recommendation of food intake in West Africa for healthy
   diet using Deep Learning
AU Iheanacho CA; Vincent OR
TC 10
SO PROC INT CONF TECHNOL EDUC DEV CHANG NARRAT BUILD SECUR SOC DISRUPT TECHNOL
   ITED
PY 2022
AB a fascinating area with many applications is that of food item recognition
   from images . food recognition is becoming more important in our daily lives
   because it plays a major part in health related issues . in this study , a
   method for categorizing food related photos using convolutional neural
   networks has been provided . convolutional neural networks , in contrast to
   conventional artificial neural networks , are able to estimate the score
   function directly from picture pixels . a tensor of outputs is generated by
   a 2d convolution layer s them ployment of a convolution kernel , which is
   convolved with the l ayer s input . there are numerous such layers , and the
   results are concatenated in portions to achieve the final tensor of outputs
   . the data is also processed using the max pooling function , and the
   features that result from that processing are employed to train the network
   . the accuracy of the suggested technique again for classes with in food 101
   dataset is 85.78 percent
DE convolutional layer; convolutional neural network; dataset; food-101;
   pooling
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; deep learning; multilayer neural networks; network layers;
   convolutional layer; convolutional neural network; daily lives; dataset;
   food intake; food-101; healthy diet; item recognition; pooling; west africa;
   tensors

---

UT 1734
AR Lohala S, 2021, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V80, P25453, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-021-10916-x
TI A novel deep learning neural network for fast-food image classification and
   prediction using modified loss function
AU Lohala S; Alsadoon A; Prasad PWC; Ali RS; Altaay AJ
TC 15
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2021
AB accurate food image classification is often critical to accurately monitor
   the dietary assessment to reduce the risk of different heart related
   diseases , obesity , diabetes , and other related health conditions . the
   accuracy and efficiency of image classification results when using
   traditional deep learning methods were less than optimal . this research
   aimed at enhancing the classification and prediction accuracy of food images
   and reducing the processing time by using the deep convolutional neural
   network ( dcn ) algorithm . the solution starts by using the modified loss
   function , the images are fed into the dcn for features extraction through
   alternating between convolutional layers and pooling layers , then this is
   followed by a fully connected layer . finally , the softmax function is used
   to classify the images . the result was compared during the classification
   phase in the dcn . the proposed solution enhanced the accuracy of the
   classification by using the regularized loss function and lowered the
   processing time by decreasing the weights of the neurons in the neural
   network . probability score is used as the evaluation metric for the
   accuracy , and total execution time is used as the evaluation metric for the
   speed of the algorithm . the combination of deep neural network with
   regularized cross entropy cost function has improved the fast food images
   classification by ahcieving better processing time by 40 ~ 50s and accuracy
   by 5 % in average
DE classification; deep convolutional neural network; modified loss function
   regularization
ID convolution; convolutional neural networks; cost functions; deep neural
   networks; function evaluation; health risks; image classification; image
   enhancement; learning systems; risk assessment; classification results;
   dietary assessments; evaluation metrics; features extraction; health
   condition; learning methods; learning neural networks; prediction accuracy;
   deep learning

---

UT 1735
AR Rahman MS, 2012, FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS, V90, P333, DOI
   10.1016/j.fbp.2011.07.001
TI Thermal conductivity prediction of foods by Neural Network and Fuzzy (ANFIS)
   modeling techniques
AU Rahman MS; Rashid MM; Hussain MA/1
TC 54
SO FOOD BIOPROD PROCESS
PY 2012
AB a neuro fuzzy modeling technique was used to predict the effective of
   thermal conductivity of various fruits and vegetables . a total of 676 data
   point was used to develop the neuro fuzzy model considering the inputs as
   the fraction of water content , temperature and apparent porosity of food
   materials . the complexity of the data set which incorporates wide ranges of
   temperature ( including those below freezing points ) made it difficult for
   the data to be predicted by normal analytical and conventional models .
   however the adaptive neuro fuzzy model ( anfis ) was able to predict
   conductivity values which closely matched the experimental values by
   providing lowest mean square error compared to multivariable regression and
   conventional artificial neural network ( ann ) models . this method also
   alleviates the problem of determining the hidden structure of the neural
   network layer by trial and error . 2011 the institution of chemical
   engineers .
DE artificial neural network; fuzzy model; neuro-fuzzy; porosity; thermal
   conductivity
ID forecasting; network layers; neural networks; porosity; apparent porosity;
   conventional artificial neural network models; conventional models; data
   points; data sets; experimental values; food materials; freezing point;
   fuzzy models; hidden structures; modeling technique; multivariable
   regression; neuro-fuzzy; neuro-fuzzy model; neuro-fuzzy modeling; trial and
   error; thermal conductivity

---

UT 1736
AR Liu S/1, 2014, CARPATHIAN J SCI TECHNOL FOOD, V6, P23
TI Application and study on rapid detection of bacillus cereus in food by
   computer vision technology
AU Liu S/1
TC 2
SO CARPATHIAN J SCI TECHNOL FOOD
PY 2014
AB with the increase of bromatotoxismus incidents induced by the foodborne
   pathogens , the study of detection methods of microbes in food both at home
   and abroad draws more and more attention . they are trying their best to
   avoid the defects in the traditional detection methods , so as to meet the
   need of ensuring the food quality and safety by detection , bacillus cereus
   is one of the most common foodborne pathogens which result in food poisoning
   , and it lives widely in the natural world in the form of spores . it can
   rapidly grow and propagate after infecting the food . it is likely to induce
   food poisoning once mistaken for food . based on the computer vision
   technology and specific staining methods of bacillus cereus , this paper
   primarily discusses the rapid detection methods of bacillus cereus in food .
   this paper proposed some new ideas on the rapid detection of bacillus cereus
   in food , and extended the application of rapid detection system for
   microbes , thus to provide some theories and technology for supporting this
   system .
DE bacillus cereus; computer vision technology; rapid detection
ID bacteria; bacteriology; computer vision; food microbiology; food safety;
   microorganisms; computer vision technology; detection methods; food
   poisoning; food quality and safeties; foodborne pathogens; rapid detection;
   rapid detection systems; staining method; bacillus cereus

---

UT 1737
AR Wu L/1, 2019, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V166, DOI 10.1016/j.compag.2019.105002
TI A deep learning model to recognize food contaminating beetle species based
   on elytra fragments
AU Wu L/1; Liu Z/4; Bera T; Ding H; Langley DA; Jenkins-Barnes A; Furlanello C;
   Maggio V; Tong W; Xu J/2
TC 54
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2019
AB insect pests are often associated with food contamination and public health
   risks . accurate and timely species specific identification of pests is a
   key step to scale impacts , trace back the contamination process and
   promptly set intervention measures , which usually have serious economic
   impact . the current procedure involves visual inspection by human analysts
   of pest fragments recovered from food samples , a time consuming and error
   prone process . deep learning models have been widely applied for image
   recognition , outperforming other machine learning algorithms . however only
   few studies have applied deep learning for food contamination detection . in
   this paper , we describe our solution for automatic identification of 15
   storage product beetle species frequently detected in food inspection . our
   approach is based on a convolutional neural network trained on a dataset of
   6900 microscopic images of elytra fragments , obtaining an overall accuracy
   of 83.8 % in cross validation . notably , the classification performance is
   obtained without the need of designing and selecting domain specific image
   features , thus demonstrating the promising prospects of deep learning
   models in detecting food contamination
DE beetle species identification; convolutional neural networks; deep learning;
   food contamination; transfer learning
ID coleoptera; hexapoda; automation; contamination; convolution; deep learning;
   deep neural networks; food storage; health risks; image recognition;
   learning algorithms; machine learning; neural networks; pollution detection;
   public risks; automatic identification; classification performance;
   convolutional neural network; food contamination; intervention measures;
   species identification; species-specific identification; transfer learning;
   accuracy assessment; algorithm; artificial neural network; beetle; economic
   impact; food; identification method; machine learning; numerical model;
   public health; food microbiology

---

UT 1738
AR Lasod A, 2018, INT CONF ENERGY COMMUN DATA ANAL SOFT COMPUT ICECDS, P2758,
   DOI 10.1109/ICECDS.2017.8389957
TI Efficiency enhancement of food recognition using artificial neural network
AU Lasod A; Soni D
TC 0
SO INT CONF ENERGY COMMUN DATA ANAL SOFT COMPUT ICECDS
PY 2018
AB in this paper , we have a tendency to apply a artificial neural network (
   ann ) to the tasks of detective work and recognizing food pictures . be
   explanation for the wide diversity of styles of food , image recognition of
   food things is usually terribly difficulties . be that as it may , deep
   learning has been indicated as of late to be a truly intense image
   recognition system , and ann could be a dynamic way to deal with deep
   learning . we tend to connected ann to the errands of food location and
   recognition through parameter change . we tend to made a dataset of the
   preeminent incessant food things in a publically available food logging
   framework , and utilized it to recognition execution . ann demonstrated
   fundamentally higher accuracy than did antiquated support vector machine
   based routes with handmade choices . furthermore , we tend to establish that
   the convolution bits demonstrate that shading commands the component
   extraction strategy . for food image discovery , ann also indicated
   fundamentally higher accuracy than a customary procedure . fundamentally
   higher accuracy than a customary strategy
DE artificial neural network; food image recognition; svm
ID image recognition; neural networks; soft computing; support vector machines;
   component extraction; efficiency enhancement; food image; food recognition;
   image recognition system; location and recognition; logging framework;
   parameter changes; deep learning

---

UT 1739
AR Pouladzadeh P, 2016, CONF REC IEEE INSTRUM MEAS TECHNOL CONF, V2016-July,
   DOI 10.1109/I2MTC.2016.7520547
TI Food calorie measurement using deep learning neural network
AU Pouladzadeh P; Kuhad P; Peddi SVB; Yassine A/1; Shirmohammadi S
TC 104
SO CONF REC IEEE INSTRUM MEAS TECHNOL CONF
PY 2016
AB accurate methods to measure food and energy intake are crucial for the
   battle against obesity . providing users / patients with convenient and
   intelligent solutions that help them measure their food intake and collect
   dietary information are the most valuable insights toward long term
   prevention and successful treatment programs . in this paper , we propose an
   assistive calorie measurement system to help patients and doctors succeed in
   their fight against diet related health conditions . our proposed system
   runs on smartphones , which allow the user to take a picture of the food and
   measure the amount of calorie intake automatically . in order to identify
   the food accurately in the system , we use deep convolutional neural
   networks to classify 10000 high resolution food images for system training .
   our results show that the accuracy of our method for food recognition of
   single food portions is 99 % . the analysis and implementation of the
   proposed system are also described in this paper
DE calorie measurement; deep neural network; food recognition; graph cut;
   segmentation
ID graphic methods; image segmentation; neural networks; convolutional neural
   network; deep neural networks; energy intake; graph cut; health condition;
   high resolution; intelligent solutions; measurement system; nutrition

---

UT 1740
AR [Anonymous], 2021, ADV PARALLEL COMPUT, V38, P134, DOI 10.3233/APC210025
TI Survey on food recognition system using machine learning
TC 2
SO ADV PARALLEL COMPUT
PY 2021
AB food recognition system is essential framework in modern world , the
   motivations behind this recognition systems are assessing calorie and
   nutrients of food varieties and show the formula of the food . as all the
   processing on picture recognition is performed on a personal digital
   assistant ( pda ) , the framework does not have to send pictures to a server
   and runs solution to a normal advanced mobile phone in a constant one .
   spontaneous image based food acknowledgment is an isolated inspiring task .
   conventional picture analysis preparing methodologies have fallen off with
   low order classification prediction in the past , while deep learning
   methodologies permitted the recognizable proof of food things . to recognize
   food items , a client ought to need to draw bounding boxes by contacting the
   screen first , and afterward the framework starts food thing acknowledgment
   inside the showed bounding boxes . moreover , the framework assesses the
   direction of food areas with the higher svm ( support vector system ) yield
   score is expected upon to be acquired , show it as an arrow on the screen to
   request that a client move an advanced mobile phone camera . this
   acknowledgment cycle is performed on and on about once each second . we will
   carry out this task as an android advanced mobile phone application to
   utilize numerous cpu cores effectively for modern real time food recognition
   system
DE image analysis; machine learning; svm

---

UT 1741
AR Tušek AJ, 2020, COMPR GUID NEURAL NETW MODEL, P57
TI Application of artificial neural networks in the food engineering
AU Tušek AJ; Valinger D; Benković M; Kljusurić JG; Jurina T
TC 0
SO COMPR GUID NEURAL NETW MODEL
PY 2020
AB artificial neural networks ( anns ) are of great interest because of their
   ability to solve problems connected to interpretation of results obtained by
   various analytical methods . these results sometimes differ from the
   ordinary form in term of vast number of results for one measurement .
   examples of those results include near infrared spectroscopy ( nirs )
   spectra or results that have to be in a specific interval . anns are
   composed of group of nonlinear regression and discrimination statistical
   methods and are often used for their ability of visualization and prediction
   which is based on their learned and trained knowledge . use of anns has been
   widely studied since they correspond to computational systems that aim to
   imitate some properties of biological neurons . basically , the ann is a
   system which corresponds to human brain in term of neurons that are linked
   by synaptic connections . the neurons are divided into i ) incoming . which
   are stimulated by external environment , ii ) internal or hidden neurons and
   iii ) output neurons . which provide communication to the outside system .
   there are a lot of advantages of anns such as : use for nonlinear and non
   parametric modeling , stability ( with enough data ) and high noise
   tolerance . due to their characteristics , anns have found wide areas of
   application , from finance and medicine , over geology and physics to food
   engineering . in this chapter , the application of anns in food engineering
   will be presented . according to available novel literature , anns have been
   used in food engineering for control , monitoring and modeling of industrial
   food processes . furthermore , anns are used for recognition , detection ,
   classification as well as for the search of patterns , prediction of on line
   parameters , image processing and optimization . why and how anns are
   applied is explained in this chapter using examples from food / beverage
   matrices
DE anns application; food engineering; prediction; visualization

---

UT 1742
AR Ricci M, 2021, IEEE CONF ANTENNA MEAS APPL CAMA, P444, DOI
   10.1109/CAMA49227.2021.9703637
TI Microwave Sensing for Food Safety: A Neural Network Implementation
AU Ricci M; Vasquez JAT; Turvani G; Sirena I; Casu MR; Vipiana F
TC 8
SO IEEE CONF ANTENNA MEAS APPL CAMA
PY 2021
AB customers attention in packaged food quality is arising in the last few
   years , as physical intrusions can still be found in commercialized products
   . frightful newspapers articles attract consideration on this matter , and
   pose a serious health issue : accidental ingestion of foreign bodies can
   severely damage the digestive system , or even because choking , with
   seniors and children being particularly exposed . existing devices to
   monitor food products have lacks , missing certain classes of contaminant ,
   low density ones in particular , due to intrinsic limitations to their
   working principle , based on materials density in the case of x rays
   inspection . here , we propose a novel detection principle , based on
   microwave sensing and exploiting the dielectric contrast between the
   potential intrusion and the surrounding matter . the realized microwave
   sensing device is , then , combined with a machine learning approach , with
   a classification mechanism capable in discerning clean from contaminated
   samples . the microwave sensing device is applied to an industrial food
   production line , showing a remarkable precision in correctly detecting
   millimetric sized intrusions made of plastic , glass or wood , which are the
   classes of materials unlikely to be located by existing inspection devices
DE food inspection; food safety; microwave sensing; non-invasive diagnostic;
   pattern recognition neural network
ID inspection; microwaves; non-invasive medical procedures; pattern
   recognition; commercialized products; food inspection; food quality; food
   safety; microwave sensing; neural networks; non-invasive diagnostics;
   packaged food; pattern recognition neural network; sensing devices; food
   safety

---

UT 1743
AR Kim K-J, 2016, IEEE ACCESS, V4, P8199, DOI 10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2600699
TI Tell Me What You Eat, and i Will Tell You Where You Come From: A Data
   Science Approach for Global Recipe Data on the Web
AU Kim K-J; Chung C-H
TC 24
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2016
AB thousands of recipes , representing different national cuisines , from the
   site recipesource . com were analyzed with the aim of understanding the food
   culture of various countries by comparing the ingredients used in their food
   . the recipe analysis identified ingredients and their frequencies of use in
   the creation of unique recipes . food analyzer , the program developed in
   this paper , used data from recipes to examine correlations between
   individual food ingredients in recipes . this paper found that : 1 ) each
   country or ethnic group used authentic ingredients that differed from others
   and 2 ) the groupings of these authentic ingredients were essentially
   location dependent . the boundaries of food relevant areas were closely
   related to levels of precipitation . meaningful correlations characterizing
   the food culture of each area can be explained by these authentic
   ingredients in recipes
DE data mining; food culture; national cuisine; recipe analysis
ID ethnic groups; food ingredients; location dependents; national cuisine;
   nocv2; recipe analysis; data mining

---

UT 1744
AR Khan MIH, 2022, DRY TECHNOL, V40, P1051, DOI 10.1080/07373937.2020.1853152
TI Application of machine learning-based approach in food drying: opportunities
   and challenges
AU Khan MIH; Sablani SS; Joardder MUH; Karim MA
TC 109
SO DRY TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB application of machine learning ( ml ) -based algorithms in food drying is
   an exciting and innovative approach to advance the drying technology . in
   order to appropriately develop this novel approach in all aspects of food
   drying field , significant scientific research is required . the main
   aspects of food drying research are the determination of material properties
   , microstructural characterization , mathematical modeling , and process
   optimization . it is essential to express this fundamental information
   through ml based algorithms to advance the food drying research . this paper
   aims to present a comprehensive review of the application of machine
   learning based approaches in food drying modeling , property prediction ,
   microstructural characterization , and process parameters optimization .
   moreover , this paper discusses the possibilities and challenges to apply ml
   based algorithms in multiscale modeling and microwave based hybrid drying .
   it is expected that this review paper will be beneficial in advancing the
   machine learning based food drying technology
DE artificial neural network; food drying; food microstructure; food
   properties; modeling
ID algorithms; drying; food; machinery; optimization; paper; processes;
   research; drying; optimization; drying technology; hybrid drying; innovative
   approaches; micro-structural characterization; multi-scale modeling; process
   parameters optimizations; property predictions; scientific researches;
   machine learning

---

UT 1745
AR Duangsuphasin A, 2021, PROC - RES INVEN INNOV CONGR INNOV ELECTR ELECTRON
   RI2C, P54, DOI 10.1109/RI2C51727.2021.9559831
TI Design of a Decision Support System for Vegetarian Food Flavoring by Using
   Deep Learning for the Ageing Society
AU Duangsuphasin A; Kengpol A; Lima RM
TC 3
SO PROC - RES INVEN INNOV CONGR INNOV ELECTR ELECTRON RI2C
PY 2021
AB the objective of this research is to design a decision support system ( dss
   ) for vegetarian food flavoring by using deep learning methods , which is a
   multi layer perceptron neural network model ( mlpnn ) for the aging society
   . vegetarian food is consisting mainly of fruits and vegetables can help
   reduce the risk of chronic diseases [ 10 ] such as high blood pressure ,
   osteoarthritis , cataract , high cholesterol , and diabetes , there are top
   5 of the elderly chronic diseases [ 21 ] . the results show which vegetarian
   food sets are appropriate for three aging society groups with chronic
   diseases . the mlpnn can generate the accuracy of a trained dataset at 94.3
   % and a tested dataset at 85 % . the benefit of this model is that the aging
   people can choose the appropriate food menu according to their type of
   chronic diseases and the restaurant can produce the appropriate food menu
   for them
DE aging society; decision support system; deep learning; multilayer perceptron
   neural network; vegetarian food
ID blood pressure; deep learning; diseases; multilayer neural networks; network
   layers; aging societies; chronic disease; deep learning; flavorings; fruit
   and vegetables; high blood pressures; learning methods; multilayer
   perceptrons neural networks ( mlps ); neural network model; vegetarian food;
   decision support systems

---

UT 1746
AR Deshmukh PB, 2021, INT CONF EMERG SMART COMPUT INFORMATICS ESCI, P418, DOI
   10.1109/ESCI50559.2021.9397023
TI Caloriemeter: Food calorie estimation using machine learning
AU Deshmukh PB; Metre VA; Pawar RY
TC 27
SO INT CONF EMERG SMART COMPUT INFORMATICS ESCI
PY 2021
AB machine learning ( ml ) is a very powerful and important technology in the
   world today . with the help of ml modules , various appropriate algorithms
   such as faster rcnn algorithm , canny edge detection algorithm and grabcut
   segmentation algorithm are applied to the proposed system . this system
   focuses mainly on the calculation of calories and other nutrients present in
   food . the whole thing will be automated as opposed to existing systems
   where the user needs to manually deliver the values . however , users will
   only need to click on the food image and provide it as an input to the
   system . further processes can be automated quickly , such as the use of
   nearer r cnn to perceive for each food and standardization item . the
   grabcut algorithm is used to get the outline of each food . then the volume
   of individually food is determined by formulas for volume valuation . lastly
   , it estimates the calories of each food and experimental studies have shown
   that by providing production with information of calories and nutrients
   present in the food , the proposed estimation method is effective
DE calorie estimation; image processing; machine learning
ID edge detection; image segmentation; nutrients; calorie estimations; canny
   edge detection; estimation methods; existing systems; food image;
   segmentation algorithms; system focus; user need; machine learning

---

UT 1747
AR Aguilar E, 2020, BIOSIGNALS - INT CONF BIO-INSPIRED SYST SIGNAL PROCESS
   PROC; INT JT CONF BIOMED ENG SYST TECHNOL BIOSTEC, P9
TI Uncertainty modeling and deep learning applied to food image analysis
AU Aguilar E; Nagarajan B; Khatun R; Bolaños M; Radeva P
TC 0
SO BIOSIGNALS - INT CONF BIO-INSPIRED SYST SIGNAL PROCESS PROC; INT JT CONF
   BIOMED ENG SYST TECHNOL BIOSTEC
PY 2020
AB recognizing food images arises as a difficult image recognition task due to
   the high intra class variance and low inter class variance of food
   categories . deep learning has been shown as a promising methodology to
   address such difficult problems as food image recognition that can be
   considered as a fine grained object recognition problem . we argue that , in
   order to continue improving performance in this task , it is necessary to
   better understand what the model learns instead of considering it as a black
   box . in this paper , we show how uncertainty analysis can help us gain a
   better understanding of the model in the context of the food recognition .
   furthermore , we take decisions to improve its performance based on this
   analysis and propose a new data augmentation approach considering sample
   level uncertainty . the results of our method considering the evaluation on
   a public food dataset are very encouraging
DE deep learning; food recognition; uncertainty modeling
ID biomedical engineering; biomimetics; deep learning; image recognition;
   learning systems; object recognition; medical informatics; uncertainty
   analysis; electronic medical equipment; data augmentation; fine grained;
   improving performance; inter class; intra class; object recognition problem;
   performance based; uncertainty modeling; black boxes; uncertainty analysis;
   deep learning

---

UT 1748
AR Natephakdee N, 2022, INT CONF DIGIT ARTS MEDIA TECHNOL DAMT ECTI NORTH SECT
   CONF ELECTR ELECTRON COMPUT TELECOMMUN ENG NCON, P433, DOI
   10.1109/ECTIDAMTNCON53731.2022.9720324
TI Thai Food Recognition Using Convolutional Neural Network with Dropout
   Technique
AU Natephakdee N; Temdee P; Srimaharaj W
TC 0
SO INT CONF DIGIT ARTS MEDIA TECHNOL DAMT ECTI NORTH SECT CONF ELECTR ELECTRON
   COMPUT TELECOMMUN ENG NCON
PY 2022
AB visually recognizing thai food is indeed a challenging task and tradition
   methods have achieved historically low classification . while deep learning
   operation allows users to identify thai cuisine and visually distinguish
   thai food , it often includes complex meanings . the deep learning approach
   has shown very satisfied results in such challenges . therefore , this study
   focuses on presenting methods and techniques for noise reduction of thai
   food images used in image recognition . a total of sixty thousand sample
   images were used in the experiment . results revealed that the method
   offered highest reliable accuracy of 94.16 %
DE deep learning; food recognitions; images processing
ID convolutional neural networks; image recognition; noise abatement;
   convolutional neural network; deep learning; food image; food recognition;
   high reliable; images processing; learning approach; method and technique;
   deep learning

---

UT 1749
AR Hridoy RH, 2021, INT CONF TECHNOL ICIT - PROC, P543, DOI
   10.1109/ICIT52682.2021.9491783
TI A Computer Vision Based Food Recognition Approach for Controlling
   Inflammation to Enhance Quality of Life of Psoriasis Patients
AU Hridoy RH; Akter F; Mahfuzullah M; Ferdowsy F
TC 11
SO INT CONF TECHNOL ICIT - PROC
PY 2021
AB deep learning becomes the spotlight in computer vision based recognition
   approaches in recent years . psoriasis affects people of all ages around the
   world and causes inflammation on the skin with significant systemic
   disability and illness . inflammatory foods increase inflammation rapidly ,
   patients can easily control inflammation to enhance the quality of life by
   eliminating these foods from their everyday diet . this paper addresses a
   rapid food recognition approach to assist psoriasis patients to recognize
   fifteen highly inflammatory foods . using image augmentation techniques , a
   dataset of 41250 images of different inflammatory foods have generated from
   10000 images . alexnet , vgg16 , and efficientnet b0 have used in this study
   using the transfer learning approach , and efficientnet b0 has achieved the
   highest accuracy of 98.63 % under the test set of 5250 images . alexnet and
   vgg16 have achieved 87.22 % and 93.79 % accuracy , respectively .
   efficientnet b0 has consumed the lowest time in recognizing unseen images
   compared to others
DE computer vision; deep learning; food recognition; psoriasis; transfer
   learning
ID deep learning; dermatology; medical computing; pathology; quality control;
   transfer learning; augmentation techniques; quality of life; test sets;
   computer vision

---

UT 1750
AR Hernández JA, 2009, CAB REV PERSPECT AGRIC VET SCI NUTR NAT RESOUR, V4, P1,
   DOI 10.1079/PAVSNNR20094061
TI Use of neural networks and neural network inverse in optimizing food
   processes
AU Hernández JA
TC 11
SO CAB REV PERSPECT AGRIC VET SCI NUTR NAT RESOUR
PY 2009
AB artificial neural networks ( ann ) are widely accepted as a tool that offers
   an alternative way to tackle complex problems in optimizing the food
   processes . the interest in using ann in optimization arises from their
   capacity to model without any assumptions about the nature of underlying
   mechanisms and their ability to take into account non linearities and
   iterations between variables as well as to perform rapid calculations . they
   have been used in optimization of parameters , resulting in optimal
   production of the food preparation . ann inverse ( anni ) is also being
   applied to optimize the operating conditions or parameters in food processes
   . anni is a new tool that inverts an ann and uses an optimization method to
   find the optimum parameter value ( or unknown parameter ) for given required
   conditions in the processes . in order to perform anni , it is necessary to
   build the ann that simulates the output parameters of a food process . in
   general , this class of ann model is constituted of a feedforward network
   with one hidden layer , considering one or more well known input parameter (
   s ) of the process . normally , a levenberg marquardt learning algorithm , a
   hyperbolic tangent sigmoid and a linear transfer function with several
   neurons in the hidden layer ( because of the process complexity ) are
   considered in the built model . with the required or optimized output and
   some input parameters in anni , it is possible to calculate the unknown
   input parameters . consequently , the anni is applied to determine the
   optimal parameters and it already has applications in different process with
   very short elapsed time ( seconds ) . the great advantage of using anni lies
   in the fact that it makes it faster and easier to predict optimal parameters
   to control the food preparation . cab international 2009 .
DE artificial neural network; food optimization; neural network inverse;
   optimal parameters

---

UT 1751
AR Qiao Y, 2022, TRANS EMERG TELECOMMUN TECHNOL, V33, DOI 10.1002/ett.3869
TI Privacy-preserving dish-recommendation for food nutrition through edging
   computing
AU Qiao Y; Sun Q/1; Cao H/1; Wang J/3; Hao T
TC 4
SO TRANS EMERG TELECOMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB the catering industry is a humungous service based industry , which includes
   food nutrition and security , transporting , tourism , and similar services
   . employing the new techniques , such as machine learning and deep learning
   , competing firms can improve their strategies and deliver better services
   with lower price . in this work , we investigate a large number of
   historical dining data that reflect customer spending habits and taste
   preferences through terminal devices at the edge of the network , which can
   be used for customers to recommend dishes when ordering . with the
   popularity of cloud computing today , it is also prone to some shortcomings
   when the amount of computing is too large , such as poor real time
   performance , high server pressure , data security risks , and so on .
   especially , the leakage of user privacy often has incalculable consequences
   . based on this , this article proposes a hot pot dish recommendation
   algorithm based on data mining and food nutrition for edge devices , which
   can effectively protect user privacy . the experimental data in this article
   is derived from the massive consumption data of customers in china s large
   hot pot enterprises . first , clean the raw data and mask the user privacy
   to get feature data unrelated with user privacy that can be used for dish
   recommendation . on the basis of this , combined with data mining methods ,
   diet , and other indicators , the results of final recommended dish can
   respond to both user preferences and nutrition arrange . the experimental
   results show that this dish recommended method is more reasonable and
   healthier . 2020 john wiley and sons , ltd .
ID data privacy; deep learning; leisure industry; nutrition; sales; service
   industry; tourism industry; catering industries; customer spending; data
   mining methods; data security risks; privacy-preserving; real time
   performance; recommendation algorithms; terminal devices; data mining

---

UT 1752
AR Naik H, 2022, INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA - PROC, P998,
   DOI 10.1109/ICECA55336.2022.10009277
TI Machine Learning based Food Sales Prediction using Random Forest Regression
AU Naik H; Yashwanth K; Suraj P; Jayapandian N
TC 14
SO INT CONF ELECTRON COMMUN AEROSP TECHNOL ICECA - PROC
PY 2022
AB sales forecasting is crucial in the food industry , which experiences high
   levels of food sales and demand . the industry has concentrated on a well
   known and established statistical model . due to modern technologies , it
   has gained tremendous appeal in improving market operations and productivity
   . the main objective is to find the most accurate algorithms to predict food
   sales and which algorithm is most suitable for sales forecasting . this
   research work has mentioned and discussed about several research articles
   that revolve around the techniques usedfor sales prediction as well as
   finding out the advantages and disadvantages of the said techniques .
   various techniques were discussed as to predicting the sales but mainly
   incline increasing regression and accidental forestry lapse is used for
   attention . the manufacturing has concentrated on a well known and
   established statistical model . although algorithms like modest direct
   regression , incline increasing lapse , provision course lapse , accidental
   forest lapse , gradient boosting regression , and random forest regression
   are well familiar for outdoing others , it has remained decisively
   established that random forest regression is the most appropriate technique
   when associated to the others . after doing the whole examination , the
   random forest regression technique fared well when compared to other
   algorithms . the feature importance is generated for the selected dataset
   using python and random forest regression and the nose position chart is
   also explainedin detail . the proposed model is compared three major
   parameters that are accuracy score , mean absolute error and max error . the
   proposed random forest regression accuracy score is improved nearly 1.83 %
   and absolute error rate is reduced 4.66 %
DE artificial intelligence; food; forecasting; machine learning; regression;
   sales prediction
ID errors; forestry; machine learning; random forests; regression analysis;
   sales; food industries; gradient boosting; machine learning; market
   operation; modern technologies; random forests; regression; sale
   predictions; sales forecasting; statistic modeling; forecasting

---

UT 1753
AR Adak A, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11101500
TI Sentiment Analysis of Customer Reviews of Food Delivery Services Using Deep
   Learning and Explainable Artificial Intelligence: Systematic Review
AU Adak A; Pradhan B; Shukla N
TC 120
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB during the covid 19 crisis , customers preference in having food delivered
   to their doorstep instead of waiting in a restaurant has propelled the
   growth of food delivery services ( fdss ) . with all restaurants going
   online and bringing fdss onboard , such as ubereats , menulog or deliveroo ,
   customer reviews on online platforms have become an important source of
   information about the company s performance . fds organizations aim to
   gather complaints from customer feedback and effectively use the data to
   determine the areas for improvement to enhance customer satisfaction . this
   work aimed to review machine learning ( ml ) and deep learning ( dl ) models
   and explainable artificial intelligence ( xai ) methods to predict customer
   sentiments in the fds domain . a literature review revealed the wide usage
   of lexicon based and ml techniques for predicting sentiments through
   customer reviews in fds . however , limited studies applying dl techniques
   were found due to the lack of the model interpretability and explainability
   of the decisions made . the key findings of this systematic review are as
   follows : 77 % of the models are non interpretable in nature , and
   organizations can argue for the explainability and trust in the system . dl
   models in other domains perform well in terms of accuracy but lack
   explainability , which can be achieved with xai implementation . future
   research should focus on implementing dl models for sentiment analysis in
   the fds domain and incorporating xai techniques to bring out the
   explainability of the models
DE deep learning; explainable artificial intelligence; food delivery services;
   lime; sentiment analysis; shapley

---

UT 1754
AR Mikhailava V, 2020, INT CONF ADV COMMUN TECHNOL ICACT, V2020, P285, DOI
   10.23919/ICACT48636.2020.9061216
TI Aesthetic Evaluation of Food Plate Images using Deep Learning
AU Mikhailava V; Pyshkin E; Klyuev V
TC 7
SO INT CONF ADV COMMUN TECHNOL ICACT
PY 2020
AB this paper contributes to the experiments on using machine learning
   algorithms for image esthetic evaluation , with particular focus on food
   plate image evaluation . such an evaluation may be beneficial for
   professional and amateur cuisine makers , restaurant critiques ,
   photographers , and travelers . we use a convolutional neural network at the
   training and recognition stages . the proof of concept experiments are
   arranged using our marked dataset of food plate images . earth mover s
   distance algorithm is used for process validation . the analysis of results
   shows that the trained system predicts food image esthetic value conforming
   to the collected human expert evaluations with good quality . 2020 global it
   research institute giri .
DE esthetic assessment; esthetic scoring; deep learning; evaluating food
   plates; image esthetics
ID convolutional neural networks; learning algorithms; quality control; earth
   mover distance; food image; human expert; image esthetics; image evaluation;
   process validation; proof of concept; deep learning

---

UT 1755
AR Krupitzer C, 2022, ENG PROC, V19, DOI 10.3390/ECP2022-12623
TI DigiFoodTwin: Digital Biophysical Twins Combined with Machine Learning for
   Optimizing Food Processing †
AU Krupitzer C; Noack T
TC 5
SO ENG PROC
PY 2022
AB production processes must allow high flexibility and adaptivity to ensure
   food supply . this includes reacting to disruptions in the supply of
   ingredients , as well as the varying quality of ingredients , e . g . ,
   seasonal fluctuations of raw material quality . digital twins are known from
   industry 4.0 as a method to model , simulate , and optimize processes . in
   this vision paper , we describe the concept of a digital food twin . due to
   the variability of these raw materials , such a digital twin has to take
   into account not only the processing steps , but also the chemical ,
   physical , or microbiological properties that change the food independent of
   the processing . we propose a model based learning and reasoning loop ,
   which is known from self aware computing ( seac ) systems in the so called
   learnreasonaction loop ( lra m loop ) , for modeling the input for the lra m
   loop of food production , not as a pure knowledge database , but data that
   are generated by simulations of the bio chemical and physical properties of
   food . this work presents a conceptual framework on how to include data
   provided by a digital food twin in a self aware food processing system to
   respond to fluctuating raw material quality and to secure food supply and
   discusses the applicability of the concept
DE artificial intelligence; digital twin; food processing; industry 40; self-
   awareness computing systems

---

UT 1756
AR Rojas C, 2021, FOOD CHEM, V342, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.128354
TI Foodinformatic prediction of the retention time of pesticide residues
   detected in fruits and vegetables using UHPLC/ESI Q-Orbitrap
AU Rojas C; Aranda JF; Pacheco Jaramillo E; Losilla I; Tripaldi P; Duchowicz
   PR; Castro EA
TC 23
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2021
AB the present work describes the development of an in silico model to predict
   the retention time ( tr ) of a large compound database ( cdb ) of pesticides
   detected in fruits and vegetables . the model utilizes ultrahigh performance
   liquid chromatography electrospray ionization quadrupole orbitrap ( uhplc /
   esi q orbitrap ) mass spectrometry ( ms ) data . the available cdb was
   properly curated , and the pesticides were represented by conformation
   independent molecular descriptors . in an attempt to improve the model
   predictions , the best four mlr models obtained were subjected to a
   consensus analysis . the optimal model was evaluated by means of the
   coefficient of determination and the residual standard deviation in
   calibration , validation , and prediction , along other internal and
   external validation criteria to accomplish the guidelines defined by the
   organization for economic co operation and development . finally , the in
   silico model was applied to predict the tr of an external set of 57
   pesticides
DE consensus analysis; food informatics; fruits and vegetables; pesticide
   residues; qspr
ID calibration; chromatography high pressure liquid; food analysis; food
   contamination; fruit; informatics; pesticide residues; spectrometry mass
   electrospray ionization; vegetables; electrospray ionization; forecasting;
   fruits; international cooperation; liquid chromatography; mass spectrometry;
   vegetables; pesticide residue; pesticide residue; coefficient of
   determination; consensus analysis; fruits and vegetables; molecular
   descriptors; organization for economic cooperation and development; standard
   deviation; ultra-high performance liquid chromatographies; validation
   criteria; article; banana; bioinformatics; broccoli; calibration; carrot;
   chemical structure; computer model; computer prediction; conformation;
   consensus; controlled study; data analysis software; data base; electrospray
   mass spectrometry; fruit; grape; lettuce; orange ( fruit ); potato; practice
   guideline; quadrupole mass spectrometry; quantitative structure property
   relation; residue analysis; retention time ( chromatography ); standard;
   strawberry; tomato; ultra performance liquid chromatography; vegetable;
   chemistry; electrospray mass spectrometry; food analysis; food
   contamination; fruit; high performance liquid chromatography; information
   science; metabolism; procedures; vegetable; pesticides

---

UT 1757
AR Evans T, 2013, LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG, V234 LNEE, P259, DOI
   10.1007/978-1-4614-6747-2_32
TI Analysis of USDA food classifications using neural network classifier
AU Evans T; Choi A/1
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES ELECTR ENG
PY 2013
AB neural networks have the potential to analyze many possible situations and
   learn the correct information through training , learning , and validation .
   the development of a neural network that is capable of replicating the food
   groupings in the united states department of agriculture s national nutrient
   database will be analyzed . this database contains 7,906 food items that are
   grouped into several different categories such as fats and oils , breakfast
   cereals , and pork products . a single layer perceptron network is then
   created to analyze this data and train the network to classify the food
   items correctly . the neural network data is divided into three categories .
   seventy five percent of the data is used for training the neural network ,
   15 % is used for validation , and 10 % is used for testing . the results of
   the network show that certain food groups were harder to classify correctly
   than others , but overall , the entire testing data set had a
   misclassification of approximately 10 % . there is still much potential for
   this network to become better . expanding the data set in certain categories
   should help the classification error to decrease even more . 2013 springer
   science+business media new york .
DE food classification; kohonen map; matlab; neural network; self-organizing
   map; usda
ID cereal products; classification ( of information ); conformal mapping;
   matlab; neural networks; self-organizing maps; breakfast cereals;
   classification errors; kohonen map; misclassifications; neural network
   classifier; single layer perceptron; united states department of
   agricultures; usda; oils and fats

---

UT 1758
AR Zavala-Alcívar A, 2020, IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL, V598, P501, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-62412-5_41
TI Assessing and Selecting Sustainable and Resilient Suppliers in Agri-Food
   Supply Chains Using Artificial Intelligence: A Short Review
AU Zavala-Alcívar A; Verdecho M-J; Alfaro-Saiz J-J
TC 20
SO IFIP ADV INF COMMUN TECHNOL
PY 2020
AB the supplier evaluation and selection process is critical to increase the
   sustainability and resilience of the agri food supply chain . therefore , in
   this sector , it is necessary to consider sustainability and resilience
   criteria in the supplier evaluation and selection process . the use of
   artificial intelligence techniques allows managing of a lot of information
   and the reduction of uncertainty for decision making . the objective of this
   article is to analyze articles that address the selection of suppliers in
   agrifood supply chains that pursue to increase their sustainability and
   resilience by using artificial intelligence techniques to analyze the
   techniques and criteria used and draw conclusions
DE agri-food supply chains; artificial intelligence; resilience; supplier
   selection; sustainability
ID decision making; food supply; supply chains; sustainable development;
   virtual corporation; agri-food supply chains; artificial intelligence
   techniques; supplier evaluation and selections; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1759
AR Begum N, 2022, ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV, P276, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-5141-0.ch015
TI Artificial intelligence-based food calories estimation methods in diet
   assessment research
AU Begum N; Goyal A; Sharma S/4
TC 10
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV
PY 2022
AB the standard of healthy intake of food is the necessity for keeping a
   balanced diet to prevent the obesity problem and many other health problems
   in humans . obesity is increasing at an alarming speed and keeping people s
   health at risk . mankind needs to have careful control on their daily intake
   of calories by choosing healthier foods , which will be the most fundamental
   method in preventing obesity and ill health . even though the packaging of
   food comes with calorie and nutrition labels , it might not be very
   favorable for the reference of people . thus , the scientists to help people
   started using ai based techniques and methodologies to know the ways of
   determining their daily calorie intake of their food . this chapter proposes
   a review of various ai based food calorie estimation methodologies in diet
   assessment which are suggested to help the normal people and patients so
   that normal people and doctors could succeed to fight against diet based
   health conditions

---

UT 1760
AR Siemon MSN, 2021, SCI REP, V11, DOI 10.1038/s41598-020-79677-1
TI Sequential transfer learning based on hierarchical clustering for improved
   performance in deep learning based food segmentation
AU Siemon MSN; Shihavuddin ASM; Ravn-Haren G
TC 24
SO SCI REP
PY 2021
AB accurately segmenting foods from optical images is a challenging task , yet
   becoming possible with the help of recent advances in deep learning based
   solutions . automated identification of food items opens up possibilities of
   useful applications like nutrition intake monitoring . given large
   variations in food choices , deep learning based solutions still struggle to
   generate human level accuracy . in this work , we propose a novel sequential
   transfer learning method using hierarchical clustering . this novel approach
   simulates a step by step problem solving framework based on clustering of
   similar types of foods . the proposed approach provides up to 6 % gain in
   accuracy compared to traditional network training and generated a robust
   model performing better in challenging unseen cases . this approach is also
   tested for segmenting foods in danish school children meals for dietary
   intake monitoring as an application
ID article; child; controlled study; deep learning; dietary intake; female;
   hierarchical clustering; human; human experiment; male; problem solving;
   transfer of learning

---

UT 1761
AR Kaya A, 2020, SENSORS, V20, P1, DOI 10.3390/s20113173
TI Sensor failure tolerable machine learning-based food quality prediction
   model
AU Kaya A; Keçeli AS; Catal C; Tekinerdogan B
TC 30
SO SENSORS
PY 2020
AB for the agricultural food production sector , the control and assessment of
   food quality is an essential issue , which has a direct impact on both human
   health and the economic value of the product . one of the fundamental
   properties from which the quality of the food can be derived is the smell of
   the product . a significant trend in this context is machine olfaction or
   the automated simulation of the sense of smell using a so called electronic
   nose or e nose . hereby , many sensors are used to detect compounds , which
   define the odors and herewith the quality of the product . the proper
   assessment of the food quality is based on the correct functioning of the
   adopted sensors . unfortunately , sensors may fail to provide the correct
   measures due to , for example , physical aging or environmental factors . to
   tolerate this problem , various approaches have been applied , often
   focusing on correcting the input data from the failed sensor . in this study
   , we adopt an alternative approach and propose machine learning based
   failure tolerance that ignores failed sensors . to tolerate for the failed
   sensor and to keep the overall prediction accuracy acceptable , a single
   plurality voting system ( spvs ) classification approach is used . hereby ,
   single classifiers are trained by each feature and based on the outcome of
   these classifiers , and a composed classifier is built . to build our spvs
   based technique , k nearest neighbor ( knn ) , decision tree , and linear
   discriminant analysis ( lda ) classifiers are applied as the base
   classifiers . our proposed approach has a clear advantage over traditional
   machine learning models since it can tolerate the sensor failure or other
   types of failures by ignoring and thus enhance the assessment of food
   quality . to illustrate our approach , we use the case study of beef cut
   quality assessment . the experiments showed promising results for beef cut
   quality prediction in particular , and food quality assessment in general
DE beef cut quality prediction; classifier; ensemble classifier; machine
   learning; single plurality voting system
ID algorithms; cluster analysis; electronic nose; food analysis; food quality;
   machine learning; agricultural robots; decision trees; discriminant
   analysis; forecasting; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; quality
   control; classification approach; environmental factors; food quality
   prediction; fundamental properties; k-nearest neighbor ( knn ); linear
   discriminant analysis; machine learning models; prediction accuracy;
   algorithm; cluster analysis; electronic nose; food analysis; food quality;
   machine learning; procedures; electronic nose

---

UT 1762
AR Pan L, 2017, PROC - IEEE INT CONF COLLAB INTERNET COMPUT CIC, V2017-January,
   P181, DOI 10.1109/CIC.2017.00033
TI DeepFood: Automatic Multi-Class Classification of Food Ingredients Using
   Deep Learning
AU Pan L; Pouyanfar S; Chen H/3; Qin J; Chen S-C
TC 61
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF COLLAB INTERNET COMPUT CIC
PY 2017
AB deep learning has brought a series of breakthroughs in image processing .
   specifically , there are significant improvements in the application of food
   image classification using deep learning techniques . however , very little
   work has been studied for the classification of food ingredients . therefore
   , this paper proposes a new framework , called deepfood which not only
   extracts rich and effective features from a dataset of food ingredient
   images using deep learning but also improves the average accuracy of multi
   class classification by applying advanced machine learning techniques .
   first , a set of transfer learning algorithms based on convolutional neural
   networks ( cnns ) are leveraged for deep feature extraction . then , a multi
   class classification algorithm is exploited based on the performance of the
   classifiers on each deep feature set . the deepfood framework is evaluated
   on a multi class dataset that includes 41 classes of food ingredients and
   100 images for each class . experimental results illustrate the
   effectiveness of the deepfood framework for multi class classification of
   food ingredients . this model that integrates resnet deep feature sets ,
   information gain ( ig ) feature selection , and the smo classifier has shown
   its supremacy for foodingredients recognition compared to several existing
   work in this area
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; feature extraction; food
   recognition; image classification; multi-class classification
ID classifiers; convolution; deep learning; extraction; feature extraction;
   food additives; image classification; image enhancement; learning
   algorithms; neural networks; convolutional neural network; feature sets;
   food ingredients; food recognition; information gain; learning techniques;
   machine learning techniques; multi-class classification; classification ( of
   information )

---

UT 1763
AR Teng J, 2019, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V78, P11155, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-018-6695-9
TI Recognition of Chinese food using convolutional neural network
AU Teng J; Zhang D/2; Lee D-J; Chou Y
TC 33
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2019
AB food recognition is the first step for dietary assessment . computer vision
   technology is being viewed as an effective tool for automatic food
   recognition for monitoring nutrition intake . of the many food recognition
   algorithms in the literature , bag of features model is a proven approach
   that has shown impressive recognition accuracy . in this paper , we propose
   a small and efficient convolutional neural network architecture for chinese
   food recognition , which is more applicable for resources limited platforms
   . our network architecture is designed to model and perform a pipeline of
   processing similar to the bag of features approach . the main advantage of
   the proposed architecture , like other convolutional neural networks , is
   its ability to unifiedly optimize the entire network through back
   propagation , which is critical to recognition accuracy . we further compare
   and correlate our architecture with the traditional bag of features model in
   an attempt to investigate the similarities between them and identify factors
   that influence the recognition accuracy . the proposed architecture with a
   5-layer deep convolutional neural network achieves the top 1 accuracy of
   97.12 % and the top 5 accuracy of 99.86 % on a newly created chinese food
   image dataset that is composed of 8734 images of 25 food categories . our
   experimental result demonstrates the feasibility of applying the proposed
   compact cnn architecture to a challenging problem and achieve real time
   performance
DE bag-of-features model; chinese food; convolutional neural network;
   recognition
ID backpropagation; convolution; deep neural networks; neural networks;
   nutrition; bag-of-features; computer vision technology; convolutional neural
   network; deep convolutional neural networks; proposed architectures; real
   time performance; recognition; recognition accuracy; network architecture

---

UT 1764
AR Siswantoro J, 2017, PROC - INT CONF SCI TECHNOL ICSITECH SCI GREEN SOC ENV,
   P74, DOI 10.1109/ICSITech.2016.7852611
TI A new framework for measuring volume of axisymmetric food products using
   computer vision system based on cubic spline interpolation
AU Siswantoro J; Asmawati E
TC 13
SO PROC - INT CONF SCI TECHNOL ICSITECH SCI GREEN SOC ENV
PY 2017
AB volume is an important factor to determine the external quality of a food
   product . the volume measurement of food product is not a simple process if
   it is performed manually . for alternative , several volume measurement
   methods for food products have been proposed using 2d and 3d computer vision
   . disk method and frustum cone method have been applied in many 2d computer
   visions to approximate the volume of axisymmetric food products . these
   methods were less in accuracy , since it used piecewise linear function to
   approximate the boundary of the object . this paper aims to propose a new
   framework for measuring the volume of axisymmetric food product based on
   cubic spline interpolation . cubic spline interpolation is employed to
   construct a piecewise continuous polynomial of the boundary of object from
   captured image . the polynomial is then integrated to approximate the volume
   of the object . the simulation result shows that the proposed framework
   produced accurate volume measurement result
DE axisymmetric; computer vision; cubic-spline interpolation; food products;
   volume
ID computer vision; food products; piece-wise linear techniques; titration;
   volume measurement; 3d computer vision; axisymmetric; computer vision
   system; cubic-spline interpolation; measurement methods; piece-wise linear
   functions; piecewise-continuous; volume; interpolation

---

UT 1765
AR Cerit I, 2017, J FOOD NUTR RES, V56, P138
TI Estimation of antioxidant activity of foods using artificial neural networks
AU Cerit I; Yildirim A; Ucar MK; Demirkol A; Cosansu S; Demirkol O
TC 17
SO J FOOD NUTR RES
PY 2017
AB the aim of this study was to demonstrate that artificial neural networks (
   ann ) is an economical and rapid method to estimate antioxidant activity of
   foods . phenolic content of different food varieties ( red pepper and grape
   seeds ) was used as two input variables , and ferric ion reducing
   antioxidant power ( frap ) values were estimated as output . the number of
   total experimental data was 150 ( 70 % for train , 30 % for test ) . the
   developed ann was able to reveal the relationship between phenolic compounds
   and antioxidant activity of food with the feed forward model . the estimated
   frap values calculated by ann correlated with experimental frap values with
   high correlation coefficients . in addition , error rate was found to be
   approximately 10 % , which corresponds to approximately 90 % of success .
   the relationship between antioxidant substances and antioxidant activity
   demonstrated that ann can be used to determine the antioxidant properties of
   foods and results of this study showed that this was possible . by this way
   , it was demonstrated that ann is a reliable software based method to
   estimate antioxidant capacities of foods with savings of time , labor and
   experimental costs . 2017 national agricultural and food center ( slovakia )
   .
DE antioxidant activity; artificial neural network; ferric ion reducing
   antioxidant power; phenolic compounds

---

UT 1766
AR Soni A, 2022, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V21, P3717, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.12983
TI Hyperspectral imaging and machine learning in food microbiology:
   Developments and challenges in detection of bacterial, fungal, and viral
   contaminants
AU Soni A; Dixit Y; Reis MM; Brightwell G
TC 135
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2022
AB hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) is a robust and nondestructive method that can
   detect foreign particles such as microbial , chemical , and physical
   contamination in food . this review summarizes the work done in the last two
   decades in this field with a highlight on challenges , risks , and research
   gaps . considering the challenges of using hsi on complex matrices like food
   ( e . g . , the confounding and masking effects of background signals ) ,
   application of machine learning and modeling approaches that have been
   successful in achieving better accuracy as well as increasing the detection
   limit have also been discussed here . foodborne microbial contaminants such
   as bacteria , fungi , viruses , yeast , and protozoa are of interest and
   concern to food manufacturers due to the potential risk of either food
   poisoning or food spoilage . detection of these contaminants using fast and
   efficient methods would not only prevent outbreaks and recalls but will also
   increase consumer acceptance and demand for shelf stable food products . the
   conventional culture based methods for microbial detection are time and
   labor intensive , whereas hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) is robust ,
   nondestructive with minimum sample preparation , and has gained significant
   attention due to its rapid approach to detection of microbial contaminants .
   this review is a comprehensive summary of the detection of bacterial , viral
   , and fungal contaminants in food with detailed emphasis on the specific
   modeling and datamining approaches used to overcome the specific challenges
   associated with background and data complexity . 2022 the authors .
   comprehensive reviews in food science and food safety published by wiley
   periodicals llc on behalf of institute of food technologists .
DE bacteria; detection; food safety; hyperspectral imaging; modeling; virus
ID bacteria; food contamination; food microbiology; hyperspectral imaging;
   machine learning; bacteria; contamination; food microbiology; hyperspectral
   imaging; machine learning; spectroscopy; spoilage; viruses; detection;
   development and challenges; food safety; hyperspectral; hyperspectral
   imaging; microbial contaminant; modeling; nondestructive methods; research
   gaps; robust methods; bacterium; food contamination; food control; machine
   learning; food safety

---

UT 1767
AR Chin C-L, 2017, INT CONF FUZZY THEORY APPL IFUZZY, DOI
   10.1109/iFUZZY.2016.8004962
TI Smartphone-based food category and nutrition quantity recognition in food
   image with deep learning algorithm
AU Chin C-L; Huang C-C; Lin B-J; Wu G-R; Weng T-C; Chen H-F
TC 5
SO INT CONF FUZZY THEORY APPL IFUZZY
PY 2017
AB according to the similar nutritional properties , foods could be classified
   in six groups ( vegetables , fruits , dairy , oils , grains and protein
   foods ) and nourish human body respectively . however , people could not
   understand the nutrients of foods which they obtained generally . hence ,
   this paper proposes a system based on deep learning for training . users
   take pictures on diets by their smartphones and the system will recognize
   both what kinds of group and how much of nutrients they will take in . with
   our system , users could recognize the nutrients in their diet and they can
   administer their health effectively . during training , we not only confirm
   the architecture of cnn , but also find out that the color feature of foods
   in the images has significant effect on the identification result about up
   to seventy percent of the resolution ratio
ID deep learning; learning algorithms; nutrients; nutrition; smartphones; color
   features; food image; human bodies; nutritional properties; protein food;
   resolution ratios; oils and fats

---

UT 1768
AR Ueda J, 2019, PROC - IEEE INT CONF ARTIF INTELL VIRTUAL REAL AIVR, P110, DOI
   10.1109/AIVR46125.2019.00025
TI Ar food changer using deep learning and cross-modal effects
AU Ueda J; Okajima K
TC 16
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF ARTIF INTELL VIRTUAL REAL AIVR
PY 2019
AB we propose an ar application that enables us to change the appearance of
   food without ar markers by applying machine learning and image processing .
   modifying the appearance of real food is a difficult task because the shape
   of the food is atypical and deforms while eating . therefore , we developed
   a real time object region extraction method that combines two approaches in
   a complementary manner to extract food regions with high accuracy and
   stability . these approaches are based on color and edge information
   processing with a deep learning module trained with a small amount of data .
   besides , we implemented some novel methods to improve the accuracy and
   reliability of the system . then , we experimented and the results show that
   the taste and oral texture were affected by visual textures . our
   application can change not only the appearance in real time but also the
   taste and texture of actual real food . therefore , in conclusion , our
   application can be virtually termed as an ar food changer
DE color; cross modality; deep learning; disguised food; food modification;
   markerless ar; object detection
ID artificial intelligence; color; image processing; object detection;
   textures; virtual reality; ar application; cross modality; high-accuracy;
   learning modules; markerless; novel methods; object region; visual texture;
   deep learning

---

UT 1769
AR Mengucci C, 2022, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V123, P251, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2022.03.015
TI Food structure, function and artificial intelligence
AU Mengucci C; Ferranti P; Romano A; Masi P; Picone G; Capozzi F
TC 50
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB background : the complexity of food structure is such as to hinder its
   inclusion in mathematical models predicting food properties and
   transformations , although a considerable impulse is being determined by
   using artificial intelligence . as a matter of fact , food definition
   currently neglects the structural description , even in those fields for
   which structure is demonstrated to have a decisive role , such as nutrition
   . scope and approach : this review aims to analyze the current knowledge
   about the structure of foods and its potential use to numerically define the
   sensory and nutritional quality , as well as the stability properties .
   starting from this information , a possible methodology is explored to build
   , even in an automated way , mathematical models for simulating and
   predicting the properties of food . a model pipeline has been proposed and
   applied to pasta , in particular exploiting the description of the
   structural changes occurring upon cooking . key findings and conclusions :
   foods may be designed in silico , based on automated pipelines for direct
   extraction of information on rheological and sensory properties as derived
   from structure images and from data on the dynamic state of the water . the
   ultimate goal of these approaches is to make more limited use of expensive
   and time consuming experiments on physically prepared foods to get to use
   digital twins of foods designed in the laboratory
DE bio-accessibility; bioavailability; digestion; digital twin; food structure;
   functional food; in silico food
ID artificial intelligence; biochemistry; mathematical transformations;
   nutrition; pipelines; proteins; structural properties; current; bio-
   accessibility; digestion; food properties; food structures; in silico food;
   in silico; sensory qualities; structural descriptions; structure functions;
   stability

---

UT 1770
AR Sanghi P, 2022, SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL, V266, P443, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-16-6624-7_44
TI Learning Deep Features and Classification for Fresh or off Vegetables to
   Prevent Food Wastage Using Machine Learning Algorithms
AU Sanghi P; Panda SK; Pati C; Gantayat PK
TC 35
SO SMART INNOV SYST TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB in the world , a huge amount of food is produced every day for the
   consumption of all living organisms . however , around one third of the food
   produced is wasted every day . one of the reasons for the wastage of food is
   the lack of knowledge among the people regarding the state of the food if it
   is fresh or rotten . here , we aimed to find out a way to reduce the wastage
   of food caused due to the mentioned reason . we developed a tool freshyolo
   which uses powerful machine learning algorithms like yolov4 to build a model
   which tells us if the vegetable is fresh or rotten . this model was also
   compared to another model which was built using yolov3 and the results
   showed that the model built on yolov4 is better than the one built on yolov3
   as the map of yolov4 ( 0.7863 ) was better than the map of yolov3 ( 0.7433 )
   . in conclusion , our comparison between yolov4 and yolov3 shows that yolov4
   is more suitable for our tool freshyolo which will help the people to know
   if the vegetable is fresh or rotten . thus , we can reduce the amount of
   food being wasted across the globe
ID biology; deep learning; learning algorithms; food wastages; living
   organisms; machine learning algorithms; vegetables

---

UT 1771
AR Jiménez-Carvelo AM, 2022, DEV BIOTECHNOL BIOENG ADV FOOD ENG, P333, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-323-91158-0.00009-0
TI Machine learning techniques in food processing
AU Jiménez-Carvelo AM; Cruz CM; Cuadros-Rodríguez L; Koidis A
TC 9
SO DEV BIOTECHNOL BIOENG ADV FOOD ENG
PY 2022
AB currently , the food society is in the transition to the age of information
   dubbed as ' industry 4.0 ' toward automation and data driven decisions .
   recent advances in computer technology and instrumentation engineering for
   industrial food processing have led to the use of multi / megavariate data
   analysis by using machine learning methods to manage the large amount of
   data generated . for this , to effectively carry out multivariate analysis
   of the data , machine learning methods play an important role in the food
   industry since from which building of multivariate models that can make
   predictions on data in order to make a decision about both food processes
   and foodstuffs . the aim of this chapter is to provide an overview of
   processing control and product quality control in the food industry in which
   machine learning / data mining methods are used . in addition , recent
   applications developed in this field are described , and finally , future
   perspectives are critically discussed
DE data mining; food control; food processing; machine learning; multivariate
   methods

---

UT 1772
AR Djuris J, 2020, RELEASE BIOAVAILAB NANOENCAPSULATED FOOD INGREDIENTS, P311,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-12-815665-0.00009-6
TI Release modeling of nanoencapsulated food ingredients by artificial
   intelligence algorithms
AU Djuris J; Vidovic B; Ibric S
TC 9
SO RELEASE BIOAVAILAB NANOENCAPSULATED FOOD INGREDIENTS
PY 2020
AB this chapter introduces the concept of artificial intelligence algorithms
   and the potential for their application in the field of biomedicine and
   nutrition , especially in the context of nanoencapsulated food ingredients .
   among many artificial intelligence algorithms , several are selected and
   their potential for release modeling is described in more detail . these are
   namely artificial neural networks , adaptive neuro fuzzy inference systems ,
   and genetic algorithms . apart from the theoretical background on their
   operating principles , numerous examples are selected and briefly discussed
   in order to present to reader different aspects for their potential
   application . in spite of usually being treated as the ' black box '
   modeling tools , these algorithms actually do provide the opportunities to
   analyze the causal relationships between the data or perform sensitivity
   analysis , which is of great importance and value for the release modeling
DE artificial intelligence; genetic algorithms; nanoencapsulation; neural
   networks; neuro-fuzzy integrated system; optimization; release modeling

---

UT 1773
AR Sood S, 2021, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V80, P27973, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-021-11036-2
TI Computer Vision and Machine Learning based approaches for Food Security: A
   Review
AU Sood S; Singh H/1
TC 58
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2021
AB with the rapidly increase of population every day , it has become a major
   issue to fulfill everyone is need for food products ( i . e . , vegetables ,
   fruits , milk , wheat , etc . ) due to limited production of food products .
   moreover , healthy food utilization among people is the foremost requirement
   . the major factors that affect the food system includes increasing food
   shortage , decreasing quality , wastage , and loss of food products ,
   limited natural resources , etc . this article addresses the various
   computer vision and machine learning based techniques , used to minimize the
   aforementioned issues . image processing has become an effective technique
   for the analysis of many research applications . this study intends to focus
   on analysis of image processing based applications in food products and
   agriculture field . such applications help in decision making , disease
   prediction , classification , fruit sorting , soil quality measurement , etc
   . moreover , a comprehensive review has been accomplished for various
   computer vision and statistical approaches used in food production and
   agricultural field and concludes that deep learning ( dl ) based approaches
   produce better results , specifically for image processing applications .
   additionally , an effort has been made to provide a list of publicly
   available datasets for the related study
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food ssecurity; smart farming
ID agricultural robots; behavioral research; decision making; deep learning;
   food supply; fruits; image analysis; learning systems; agricultural fields;
   food production; food security; healthy foods; image processing
   applications; quality measurements; research applications; statistical
   approach; computer vision

---

UT 1774
AR García-Esteban JA, 2018, ICINCO - PROC INT CONF CONTROL AUTOM ROBOT, V2,
   P628, DOI 10.5220/0006911506280635
TI Quality control monitoring by using artificial neural networks for an
   iberian ham industry
AU García-Esteban JA; Curto B/1; Moreno V/1; Martín B
TC 3
SO ICINCO - PROC INT CONF CONTROL AUTOM ROBOT
PY 2018
AB the iberian ham is a high valued product , due to this fact , it is very
   important to offer to the costumer a high quality food product and to ensure
   its organoleptic properties . producers have to evaluate , periodically ,
   its sensorial attributes by a professional tasting panel . due to high
   elevated organizational and economics costs , in addition to , the sensory
   fatigue and the subjectivity of the panel members , only a few product lots
   are sampled . in this paper is proposed a cloud manufacturing based platform
   to monitor the quality of iberian ham . the success of this solution is
   based on cooperation and data exchange between the main agents involved in
   the process : quality manager , professional tasters , production manager ,
   inspection authorities , etc . intelligent algorithms have been embedded
   into the cloud monitoring platform to predict the ham sensory properties ,
   using the near infrared spectroscopy data from the product samples as input
   . the key feature of the solution is that the sensory analysis is performed
   without gathering routinely a professional tasting panel , but the solution
   also allows to the quality manager , with advanced visualization techniques
   , to monitor what is the merit figure related with a specific type of ham or
   shoulder . another important aspect of the solution is that , due to the
   huge amount of data coming from the elaboration process itself are available
   is possible to fine tune continuously the machine learning algorithms to the
   particular producer and use them intelligently to increase the
   competitiveness
DE food machine learning estimation; food sensory predictions; monitoring of
   food quality control
ID electronic data interchange; infrared devices; learning algorithms; machine
   learning; managers; meats; near infrared spectroscopy; neural networks;
   professional aspects; robotics; sensory analysis; advanced visualizations;
   cloud manufacturing; control monitoring; food quality controls; intelligent
   algorithms; organoleptic properties; production manager; sensory properties;
   quality control

---

UT 1775
AR Chen Y/7, 2017, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V772, P577, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-10-7302-1_48
TI Discriminative region guided deep neural network towards food image
   classification
AU Chen Y/7; Yang Y/3; Fang Q/1; Yao X
TC 2
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2017
AB food image classification plays an important role in smart health management
   , such as , diet analysis and food recommendation . due to the similar
   appearance and shape between different foods , it is quite challenging to
   distinguish various food categories from their images . to address this
   issue , we propose a discriminative region guided deep neural network to
   classify the food images . more specifically , a saliency map based pooling
   strategy is applied to the input image to preserve the category aware
   discriminative regions . meanwhile , the multi scale fusion scheme is
   employed in our deep neural network to describe the discriminative regions
   across different resolutions . experimental results on a large scale chinese
   food database show that , the average accuracy the proposed method is as
   high as 91.18 % , and outperforms the baseline by 2.58 % . springer nature
   singapore pte ltd . 2017 .
DE cnn; deep learning; discriminative regions; image classification
ID computer vision; deep learning; deep neural networks; image segmentation;
   different resolutions; discriminative regions; food image; health
   management; input image; multi-scale fusion; saliency map; image
   classification

---

UT 1776
AR Sathish S, 2022, MATER TODAY PROC, V62, P4665, DOI
   10.1016/j.matpr.2022.03.122
TI Analysis of Convolutional Neural Networks on Indian food detection and
   estimation of calories
AU Sathish S; Ashwin S; Abdul Quadir M; Pavithra LK
TC 36
SO MATER TODAY PROC
PY 2022
AB indian cuisine has a peculiar aroma and flavor distinct from other cuisines
   . on the other hand , obesity , diabetes , and hypercholesterolemia are
   severe problems in the republic of india . this research aims to develop and
   analyze a deep learning model based on opencv for identifying indian cuisine
   and determining their calories . indian cuisine dataset was built by
   extracting images from the internet and preprocessing them to fine quality .
   from the dataset , the classification of indian cuisine was done by
   convolutional neural network , and with the help of image processing
   techniques , calories of the classified food were calculated . after an
   enormous amount of analysis , the developed model detects indian food
   cuisine with an accuracy of 99.19 % on training data and 95.30 % on testing
   data . also , the estimation of calories was the accuracy with an error
   variation of 10 calories to the actual food
DE calorie estimation; deep learning; food detection; indian cuisine; opencv
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; deep
   learning; image processing; calorie estimations; convolutional neural
   network; deep learning; detection and estimation; food detection;
   hypercholesterolemia; indian cuisine; learning models; model-based opc;
   opencv; convolution

---

UT 1777
AR Ahmed MT, 2022, PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC, P928, DOI
   10.1109/ICCMC53470.2022.9753850
TI A Comparative Analysis of Food Habit and Nutrition on Food in Bangladesh
   using Machine Learning
AU Ahmed MT; Ferdaous J; Kamruzzaman M; Khatun ME
TC 5
SO PROC - INT CONF COMPUT METHODOL COMMUN ICCMC
PY 2022
AB day by day , humans change their way of life . eating habits are one of them
   . this research mainly focuses on the eating food habits and nutritional
   status of the people in bangladesh . for a healthy and beautiful nation ,
   food habits must be appropriate . just as good eating habits keep our body
   healthy and energetic , bad eating habits make us sick . for this research ,
   a data set is gathered on eating habits to find and learn about the food
   tastes of the people . collected 1200 statistics from human s everyday meals
   habits . split the data into breakfast , lunch , snack , street food ,
   dinner , and sweets . this research target is to provide the best knowledge
   about nutrition on food habits because it is quite difficult to develop a
   country without a healthy nation . this research is divided into two steps .
   ( i ) finding food habits ( ii ) synthesizing information and finding
   nutrition . an annotated reference list is included for ease is finding
   another helpful guideline . for this research , seven different types of
   machine learning algorithms such as decision tree , knn ada boosting
   classifier , logistic regression , bagging classifier , gaussian naive bayes
   , extra trees classifier have been applied
DE dietary intake; eating quality; food habit; food pattern; nutrition
   knowledge; nutritional status
ID adaptive boosting; barium compounds; decision trees; logistic regression;
   machine learning; bangladesh; comparative analyzes; dietary intakes; eating
   habits; eating quality; food habit; food nutrition; food patterns; machine
   learning; nutrition knowledge; nutrition

---

UT 1778
AR Reker D, 2020, CELL REP, V30, P3710, DOI 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.02.094
TI Machine Learning Uncovers Food- and Excipient-Drug Interactions
AU Reker D; Shi Y/2; Kirtane AR; Hess K; Zhong GJ; Crane E; Lin C-H; Langer R;
   Traverso G
TC 55
SO CELL REP
PY 2020
AB inactive ingredients and generally recognized as safe compounds are regarded
   by the us food and drug administration ( fda ) as benign for human
   consumption within specified dose ranges , but a growing body of research
   has revealed that many inactive ingredients might have unknown biological
   effects at these concentrations and might alter treatment outcomes . to
   speed up such discoveries , we apply state of the art machine learning to
   delineate currently unknown biological effects of inactive ingredients
   focusing on p glycoprotein ( p gp ) and uridine diphosphate
   glucuronosyltransferase 2b7 ( ugt2b7 ) , two proteins that impact the
   pharmacokinetics of approximately 20 % of fda approved drugs . our platform
   identifies vitamin a palmitate and abietic acid as inhibitors of p gp and
   ugt2b7 , respectively . in silico , in vitro , ex vivo , and in vivo
   validations support these interactions . our predictive framework can
   elucidate biological effects of commonly consumed chemical matter with
   implications on food and excipient drug interactions and functional drug
   formulation development . 2020 the author ( s ) . reker et al . use machine
   learning to identify biological activities of food and drug additives .
   validation confirms vitamin a palmitate as an inhibitor of p glycoprotein
   transport and abietic acid as an inhibitor of ugt2b7 metabolism . such
   associations have important implications as food or excipient drug
   interactions
DE data science; drug delivery; excipient-drug interactions; food-drug
   interactions; inactive ingredients; machine learning; pharmacokinetics;
   pharmacology; virtual screening
ID abietanes; animals; atp binding cassette transporter subfamily b member 1;
   biological assay; diterpenes; drug interactions; excipients; female; food;
   glucuronosyltransferase; hep-g2 cells; humans; machine learning; mice inbred
   balb c; pharmaceutical preparations; retinyl esters; swine; united states;
   united states food and drug administration; abc transporter subfamily b;
   abietic acid; glucuronosyltransferase 2b7; retinol palmitate; warfarin;
   abietic acid; diterpenoid; drug; excipient; glucuronosyltransferase; retinol
   ester; retinol palmitate; ugt2b7 protein human; animal cell; animal
   experiment; animal tissue; article; bagg albino mouse; biological activity;
   conceptual framework; controlled study; drug approval; drug formulation;
   drug identification; drug interaction; drug screening; drug structure;
   excipient-drug interaction; female; food and drug administration; food-drug
   interaction; in vitro study; in vivo study; machine learning; mouse;
   nonhuman; priority journal; animal; bioassay; chemistry; food; hep-g2 cell
   line; human; metabolism; pharmacology; pig; united states

---

UT 1779
AR Yu EYW, 2020, BR J NUTR, V124, P611, DOI 10.1017/S0007114520001439
TI A data mining approach to investigate food groups related to incidence of
   bladder cancer in the BLadder cancer Epidemiology and Nutritional
   Determinants International Study
AU Yu EYW; Wesselius A; Sinhart C; Wolk A; Stern MC; Jiang X/1; Tang L;
   Marshall J/1; Kellen E; Van Den Brandt P; Lu C-M; Pohlabeln H; Steineck G;
   Allam MF; Karagas MR; La Vecchia C; Porru S; Carta A; Golka K; Johnson KC;
   Benhamou S; Zhang Z-F; Bosetti C; Taylor JA; Weiderpass E; Grant EJ; White
   E; Polesel J; Zeegers MPA
TC 12
SO BR J NUTR
PY 2020
AB at present , analysis of diet and bladder cancer ( because ) is mostly based
   on the intake of individual foods . the examination of food combinations
   provides a scope to deal with the complexity and unpredictability of the
   diet and aims to overcome the limitations of the study of nutrients and
   foods in isolation . this article aims to demonstrate the usability of
   supervised data mining methods to extract the food groups related to because
   . in order to derive key food groups associated with because risk , we
   applied the data mining technique c5.0 with 10-fold cross validation in the
   bladder cancer epidemiology and nutritional determinants study , including
   data from eighteen case control and one nested case cohort study ,
   compromising 8320 because cases out of 31 551 participants . dietary data ,
   on the eleven main food groups of the eurocode 2 core classification
   codebook , and relevant non diet data ( i . e . sex , age and smoking status
   ) were available . primarily , five key food groups were extracted . in
   order of importance , beverages ( non milk ) . grains and grain products .
   vegetables and vegetable products . fats , oils and their products . meats
   and meat products were associated with because risk . since these food
   groups are corresponded with previously proposed because related dietary
   factors , data mining seems to be a promising technique in the field of
   nutritional epidemiology and deserves further examination
DE bladder cancer; data mining; epidemiological studies; food groups
ID algorithms; case-control studies; data mining; diet; female; food; humans;
   incidence; internationality; male; risk factors; urinary bladder neoplasms;
   fat; oil; adult; aged; article; bladder cancer; cancer risk; case-control
   study; controlled study; data mining; diet; female; grain; groups by age;
   human; incidence; isolation; major clinical study; male; meat; nutrient;
   sex; smoking; validation process; vegetable; algorithm; bladder tumor; food;
   incidence; international cooperation; risk factor

---

UT 1780
AR Karakan T, 2022, GUT MICROBES, V14, DOI 10.1080/19490976.2022.2138672
TI Artificial intelligence-based personalized diet: A pilot clinical study for
   irritable bowel syndrome
AU Karakan T; Gundogdu A; Alagözlü H; Ekmen N; Ozgul S; Tunali V; Hora M;
   Beyazgul D; Nalbantoglu OU
TC 65
SO GUT MICROBES
PY 2022
AB we enrolled consecutive ibs m patients ( n = 25 ) according to rome iv
   criteria . fecal samples were obtained from all patients twice ( pre and
   post intervention ) and high throughput 16s rrna sequencing was performed .
   six weeks of personalized nutrition diet ( n = 14 ) for group 1 and a
   standard ibs diet ( n = 11 ) for group 2 were followed . ai based diet was
   designed based on optimizing a personalized nutritional strategy by an
   algorithm regarding individual gut microbiome features . the ibs sss
   evaluation for pre and post intervention exhibited significant improvement (
   p < .02 and p < .001 for the standard ibs diet and personalized nutrition
   groups , respectively ) . while the ibs sss evaluation changed to moderate
   from severe in 78 % ( 11 out of 14 ) of the personalized nutrition group ,
   no such change was observed in the standard ibs diet group . a statistically
   significant increase in the faecalibacterium genus was observed in the
   personalized nutrition group ( p = .04 ) . bacteroides and putatively
   probiotic genus propionibacterium were increased in the personalized
   nutrition group . the change ( delta ) values in ibs sss scores ( before
   after ) in personalized nutrition and standard ibs diet groups are
   significantly higher in the personalized nutrition group . ai based
   personalized microbiome modulation through diet significantly improves ibs
   related symptoms in patients with ibs m . further large scale , randomized
   placebo controlled trials with long term follow up ( durability ) are needed
   . 2022 enbiosis biotechnologies limited . published with license by taylor
   and francis group , llc .
DE artificial intelligence; functional gi diseases; irritable bowel syndrome;
   microbiome; personalized medicine; symptom score or index
ID artificial intelligence; diet; gastrointestinal microbiome; humans;
   irritable bowel syndrome; rna ribosomal 16s; probiotic agent; rna 16s; rna
   16s; adult; article; artificial intelligence; bacterial microbiome;
   bacteroides; body mass; clinical article; clostridiaceae; cohort analysis;
   controlled study; faecalibacterium; fecal microbiota transplantation; feces
   analysis; female; fluorometry; follow up; gastrointestinal tract; gene
   sequence; high throughput screening; high throughput sequencing; human;
   irritable colon; machine learning; male; middle aged; multivariate analysis
   of variance; personalized nutrition; pilot study; rank sum test;
   ruminococcaceae; therapy effect; artificial intelligence; diet; intestine
   flora; microbiology

---

UT 1781
AR Tan RZ, 2021, MATH, V9, DOI 10.3390/math9111245
TI Neural architecture search for lightweight neural network in food
   recognition
AU Tan RZ; Chew X; Khaw KW
TC 16
SO MATH
PY 2021
AB healthy eating is an essential element to prevent obesity that will lead to
   chronic diseases . despite numerous efforts to promote the awareness of
   healthy food consumption , the obesity rate has been increased in the past
   few years . an automated food recognition system is needed to serve as a
   fundamental source of information for promoting a balanced diet and
   assisting users to understand their meal consumption . in this paper , we
   propose a novel lightweight neural architecture search ( lnas ) model to
   self generate a thin convolutional neural network ( cnn ) that can be
   executed on mobile devices with limited processing power . lnas has a
   sophisticated search space and modern search strategy to design a child
   model with reinforcement learning . extensive experiments have been
   conducted to evaluate the model generated by lnas , namely lnas net . the
   experimental result shows that the proposed lnas net outperformed the state
   of the art lightweight models in terms of training speed and accuracy metric
   . those experiments indicate the effectiveness of lnas without sacrificing
   the model performance . it provides a good direction to move toward the era
   of automl and mobile friendly neural model design
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; neural architecture search;
   reinforcement learning

---

UT 1782
AR Yanai K, 2015, IEEE INT CONF MULTIMED EXPO WORK ICMEW, DOI
   10.1109/ICMEW.2015.7169816
TI Food image recognition using deep convolutional network with pre-training
   and fine-tuning
AU Yanai K; Kawano Y
TC 316
SO IEEE INT CONF MULTIMED EXPO WORK ICMEW
PY 2015
AB in this paper , we examined the effectiveness of deep convolutional neural
   network ( dcnn ) for food photo recognition task . food recognition is a
   kind of fine grained visual recognition which is relatively harder problem
   than conventional image recognition . to tackle this problem , we sought the
   best combination of dcnn related techniques such as pre training with the
   large scale imagenet data , fine tuning and activation features extracted
   from the pre trained dcnn . from the experiments , we concluded the fine
   tuned dcnn which was pre trained with 2000 categories in the imagenet
   including 1000 food related categories was the best method , which achieved
   78.77 % as the top 1 accuracy for uec food100 and 67.57 % for uec food256 ,
   both of which were the best results so far . in addition , we applied the
   food classifier employing the best combination of the dcnn techniques to
   twitter photo data . we have achieved the great improvements on food photo
   mining in terms of both the number of food photos and accuracy . in addition
   to its high classification accuracy , we found that dcnn was very suitable
   for large scale image data , since it takes only 0.03 seconds to classify
   one food photo with gpu
DE deep convolutional neural network food recognition twitter photo mining
ID image recognition; neural networks; social networking ( online );
   classification accuracy; convolutional networks; convolutional neural
   network; fine grained; fine tuning; image data; pre-training; visual
   recognition; convolution

---

UT 1783
AR Nandhini P, 2013, INT CONF TRENDS ENG TECHNOL ICCTET, P85, DOI
   10.1109/ICCTET.2013.66759016
TI Computer vision system for food quality evaluation - A review
AU Nandhini P; Jaya J; George J
TC 15
SO INT CONF TRENDS ENG TECHNOL ICCTET
PY 2013
AB this study aims at classifying the quality of food products based on the
   computer vision systems . in the present paper a review based on quality
   evaluation of few food materials like cauliflower , cereals , spinach leaves
   , tea , mango and various steps to find their quality based on their defects
   are described . ieee 2013 .
DE computer vision; food materials; food quality
ID computer vision; food products; computer vision system; food materials; food
   quality; quality evaluation; spinach leaves; quality control

---

UT 1784
AR Fardet A, 2018, FOOD FUNCT, V9, P561, DOI 10.1039/c7fo01423f
TI Beyond nutrient-based food indices: A data mining approach to search for a
   quantitative holistic index reflecting the degree of food processing and
   including physicochemical properties
AU Fardet A; Lakhssassi S; Briffaz A
TC 40
SO FOOD FUNCT
PY 2018
AB processing has major impacts on both the structure and composition of food
   and hence on nutritional value . in particular , high consumption of ultra
   processed foods ( upfs ) is associated with increased risks of obesity and
   diabetes . unfortunately , existing food indices only focus on food
   nutritional content while failing to consider either food structure or the
   degree of processing . the objectives of this study were thus to link non
   nutrient food characteristics ( texture , water activity ( aw ) , glycemic
   and satiety potentials ( ff ) , and shelf life ) to the degree of processing
   . search for associations between these characteristics with nutritional
   composition . search for a holistic quantitative technological index . and
   determine quantitative rules for a food to be defined as upf using data
   mining . among the 280 most widely consumed foods by the elderly in france ,
   139 solid / semi solid foods were selected for textural and aw measurements
   , and classified according to three degrees of processing . our results
   showed that minimally processed foods were less hyperglycemic , more
   satiating , had better nutrient profile , higher aw , shorter shelf life ,
   lower maximum stress , and higher energy at break than upfs . based on 72
   food variables , multivariate analyzes differentiated foods according to
   their degree of processing . then technological indices including food
   nutritional composition , aw , ff and textural parameters were tested
   against technological groups . finally , a lim score ( nutrients to limit )
   8 per 100 kcal and a number of ingredients / additives > 4 are relevant ,
   but not sufficient , rules to define upfs . we therefore suggest that food
   health potential should be first defined by its degree of processing . 2018
   the royal society of chemistry .
ID adult; aged; data mining; fast foods; female; food analysis; food handling;
   humans; male; middle aged; nutritive value; young adult; data mining; food
   preservation; food processing; multivariant analysis; nutrients; food
   structures; minimally processed foods; multi variate analysis; nutritional
   compositions; nutritional value; physicochemical property; quantitative
   rules; textural parameters; adult; aged; analysis; data mining; fast food;
   female; food analysis; food handling; human; male; middle aged; nutritional
   value; young adult; processed foods

---

UT 1785
AR Palaniswamy D, 2017, PROC INST CIV ENG MUNIC ENG, V170, P221, DOI
   10.1680/jmuen.16.00008
TI Optimising biogas from food waste using a neural network model
AU Palaniswamy D; Ramesh G; Sivasankaran S
TC 29
SO PROC INST CIV ENG MUNIC ENG
PY 2017
AB this study has been carried out to investigate the production of biogas by
   anaerobic digestion of solid phase kitchen food waste using an artificial
   neural network . the network was used to model and optimize biogas
   production using mixed substrates of food waste with cow dung . the
   substrate mix percentage , plant ph level , digestion period and digester
   temperature were used as input parameters for the model , with biogas yield
   as the output . food waste and cow dung were mixed at different compositions
   to a total mass of 2 kg and placed in 21 miniature digesters . the input and
   output parameters from the digesters were then considered in the model . the
   highest biogas performance level of 375 ml / g volatile solids on the 25th
   day of digestion was achieved by a substrate profile of 80 % food waste and
   20 % cow dung at a temperature range of 30-40c . on the basis of these
   results , kitchen food waste is shown to be highly biodegradable and an
   effective source of biogas . 2016 ice publishing : all rights reserved .
ID biogas; neural networks; pulp digesters; substrates; biogas production;
   input and outputs; input parameter; mixed substrates; neural network model;
   performance level; substrate profile; temperature range; anaerobic
   digestion; artificial neural network; biodegradation; biogas; food waste;
   gas production; optimization; anaerobic digestion

---

UT 1786
AR Herzig D, 2020, JMIR MHEALTH UHEALTH, V22, DOI 10.2196/15294
TI Volumetric food quantification using computer vision on a depth-sensing
   smartphone: Preclinical study
AU Herzig D; Nakas CT; Stalder J; Kosinski C; Laesser C; Dehais J; Jaeggi R;
   Leichtle AB; Dahlweid F-M; Stettler C; Bally L
TC 30
SO JMIR MHEALTH UHEALTH
PY 2020
AB background : quantification of dietary intake is key to the prevention and
   management of numerous metabolic disorders . conventional approaches are
   challenging , laborious , and lack accuracy . the recent advent of depth
   sensing smartphones in conjunction with computer vision could facilitate
   reliable quantification of food intake . objective : the objective of this
   study was to evaluate the accuracy of a novel smartphone app combining depth
   sensing hardware with computer vision to quantify meal macronutrient content
   using volumetry . methods : the app ran on a smartphone with a built in
   depth sensor applying structured light ( iphone x ) . the app estimated
   weight , macronutrient ( carbohydrate , protein , fat ) , and energy content
   of 48 randomly chosen meals ( breakfasts , cooked meals , snacks )
   encompassing 128 food items . the reference weight was generated by weighing
   individual food items using a precision scale . the study endpoints were ( 1
   ) error of estimated meal weight , ( 2 ) error of estimated meal
   macronutrient content and energy content , ( 3 ) segmentation performance ,
   and ( 4 ) processing time . results : in both absolute and relative terms ,
   the mean ( sd ) absolute errors of the app s estimates were 35.1 g ( 42.8 g
   . relative absolute error : 14.0 % [ 12.2 % ] ) for weight . 5.5 g ( 5.1 g .
   relative absolute error : 14.8 % [ 10.9 % ] ) for carbohydrate content . 1.3
   g ( 1.7 g . relative absolute error : 12.3 % [ 12.8 % ] ) for fat content .
   2.4 g ( 5.6 g . relative absolute error : 13.0 % [ 13.8 % ] ) for protein
   content . and 41.2 kcal ( 42.5 kcal . relative absolute error : 12.7 % [
   10.8 % ] ) for energy content . although estimation accuracy was not
   affected by the viewing angle , the type of meal mattered , with slightly
   worse performance for cooked meals than for breakfasts and snacks .
   segmentation adjustment was required for 7 of the 128 items . mean ( sd )
   processing time across all meals was 22.9 seconds ( 8.6 seconds ) .
   conclusions : this study evaluated the accuracy of a novel smartphone app
   with an integrated depth sensing camera and found highly accurate volume
   estimation across a broad range of food items . in addition , the system
   demonstrated high segmentation performance and low processing time ,
   highlighting its usability . 2020 journal of medical internet research
DE computer vision; depth camera; dietary assessment; smartphone
ID computers; eating; humans; nutrients; smartphone; carbohydrate; fat;
   protein; accuracy; article; carbohydrate analysis; computer vision; energy;
   fat content; food intake; human; macronutrient; preclinical study; protein
   content; test meal; time; volumetry; computer; eating; smartphone

---

UT 1787
AR Liu C/4, 2016, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V9677, P37, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-319-39601-9_4
TI Deepfood: Deep learning-based food image recognition for computer-aided
   dietary assessment
AU Liu C/4; Cao Y/1; Luo Y/3; Chen G/1; Vokkarane V; Ma Y/4
TC 243
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2016
AB worldwide , in 2014 , more than 1.9 billion adults , 18 years and older ,
   were overweight . of these , over 600 million were obese . accurately
   documenting dietary caloric intake is crucial to manage weight loss , but
   also presents challenges because most of the current methods for dietary
   assessment must rely on memory to recall foods eaten . the ultimate goal of
   our research is to develop computer aided technical solutions to enhance and
   improve the accuracy of current measurements of dietary intake . our
   proposed system in this paper aims to improve the accuracy of dietary
   assessment by analyzing the food images captured by mobile devices ( e . g .
   , smartphone ) . the key technique innovation in this paper is the deep
   learning based food image recognition algorithms . substantial research has
   demonstrated that digital imaging accurately estimates dietary intake in
   many environments and it has many advantages over other methods . however ,
   how to derive the food information ( e . g . , food type and portion size )
   from food image effectively and efficiently remains a challenging and open
   research problem . we propose a new convolutional neural network ( cnn )
   -based food image recognition algorithm to address this problem . we applied
   our proposed approach to two real world food image data sets ( uec 256 and
   food 101 ) and achieved impressive results . to the best of our knowledge ,
   these results outperformed all other reported work using these two data sets
   . our experiments have demonstrated that the proposed approach is a
   promising solution for addressing the food image recognition problem . our
   future work includes further improving the performance of the algorithms and
   integrating our system into a real world mobile and cloud computing based
   system to enhance the accuracy of current measurements of dietary intake
DE deep learning; dietary assessment; food image recognition
ID automation; distributed computer systems; electric current measurement;
   health; image recognition; intelligent buildings; mobile devices; neural
   networks; nutrition; wireless telecommunication systems; convolutional
   neural network; deep learning; dietary assessments; dietary intakes; food
   image; recognition algorithm; research problems; technical solutions;
   computer aided instruction

---

UT 1788
AR Kiourt C, 2020, LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST, V18, P83, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-49724-8_4
TI Deep Learning Approaches in Food Recognition
AU Kiourt C; Pavlidis G; Markantonatou S
TC 35
SO LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST
PY 2020
AB automatic image based food recognition is a particularly challenging task .
   traditional image analysis approaches have achieved low classification
   accuracy in the past , whereas deep learning approaches enabled the
   identification of food types and their ingredients . the contents of food
   dishes are typically deformable objects , usually including complex
   semantics , which makes the task of defining their structure very difficult
   . deep learning methods have already shown very promising results in such
   challenges , so this chapter focuses on the presentation of some popular
   approaches and techniques applied in image based food recognition . the
   three main lines of solutions , namely the design from scratch , the
   transfer learning and the platform based approaches , are outlined ,
   particularly for the task at hand , and are tested and compared to reveal
   the inherent strengths and weaknesses . the chapter is complemented with
   basic background material , a section devoted to the relevant datasets that
   are crucial in light of the empirical approaches adopted , and some
   concluding remarks that underline the future directions
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food image datasets; food
   recognition
ID deep learning; learning systems; semantics; transfer learning; analysis
   approach; convolutional neural network; deep learning; food image; food
   image dataset; food recognition; image datasets; image analysis; image-
   based; learning approach; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1789
AR Sharif A, 2021, J SENS ACTUATOR NETW, V10, DOI 10.3390/jsan10040063
TI Machine learning enabled food contamination detection using rfid and
   internet of things system
AU Sharif A; Abbasi QH; Arshad K; Ansari S; Ali MZ; Kaur J; Abbas HT; Imran MA
TC 23
SO J SENS ACTUATOR NETW
PY 2021
AB this paper presents an approach based on radio frequency identification (
   rfid ) and machine learning for contamination sensing of food items and
   drinks such as soft drinks , alcohol , baby formula milk , etc . we employ
   sticker type inkjet printed ultra high frequency ( uhf ) rfid tags for
   contamination sensing experimentation . the rfid tag antenna was mounted on
   pure as well as contaminated food products with known contaminant quantity .
   the received signal strength indicator ( rssi ) , as well as the phase of
   the backscattered signal from the rfid tag mounted on the food item , are
   measured using the tagformance pro setup . we used a machine learning
   algorithm xgboost for further training of the model and improving the
   accuracy of sensing , which is about 90 % . therefore , this research study
   paves a way for ubiquitous contamination / content sensing using rfid and
   machine learning technologies that can enlighten their users about the
   health concerns and safety of their food
DE food contamination sensing; internet of things ( iot ); machine learning;
   radio frequency identification ( rfid ); ultra-high-frequency ( uhf )

---

UT 1790
AR Doherty A, 2021, GENET, V12, DOI 10.3389/fgene.2021.768979
TI Artificial Intelligence in Functional Food Ingredient Discovery and
   Characterisation: A Focus on Bioactive Plant and Food Peptides
AU Doherty A; Wall A; Khaldi N; Kussmann M
TC 49
SO GENET
PY 2021
AB scientific research consistently demonstrates that diseases may be delayed ,
   treated , or even prevented and , thereby , health may be maintained with
   health promoting functional food ingredients ( ffis ) . consumers are
   increasingly demanding sound information about food , nutrition , nutrients
   , and their associated health benefits . consequently , a nutrition industry
   is being formed around natural foods and ffis , the economic growth of which
   is increasingly driven by consumer decisions . information technology , in
   particular artificial intelligence ( ai ) , is primed to vastly expand the
   pool of characterized and annotated ffis available to consumers , by
   systematically discovering and characterizing natural , efficacious , and
   safe bioactive ingredients ( bioactives ) that address specific health needs
   . however , ffi producing companies are lagging in adopting ai technology
   for their ingredient development pipelines for several reasons , resulting
   in a lack of efficient means for large scale and high throughput molecular
   and functional ingredient characterization . the arrival of the ai led
   technological revolution allows for the comprehensive characterization and
   understanding of the universe of ffi molecules , enabling the mining of the
   food and natural product space in an unprecedented manner . in turn , this
   expansion of bioactives dramatically increases the repertoire of ffis
   available to the consumer , ultimately resulting in bioactives being
   specifically developed to target unmet health needs
DE artificial intelligence; bioactive; characterization; discovery; food
   ingredient; functional food; high throughput screening; mass spectrometry
ID food additive; food ingredient; natural product; oligosaccharide; s6 kinase;
   antiinflammatory activity; artificial intelligence; bioinformatics; breast
   milk; consumer; dietary supplement; digestion; food chain; high throughput
   screening; lifestyle; liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; marketing;
   mining; nonhuman; nutritional health; peptidomics; phytonutrient;
   prediction; protein intake; proteomics; review

---

UT 1791
AR Todorov Y, 2013, BULG J AGRIC SCI, V19, P503
TI Soft computing applications in food technology
AU Todorov Y; Nacheva I; Metodieva P; Doneva M; Tsvetkov TSV
TC 7
SO BULG J AGRIC SCI
PY 2013
AB this paper describes the potentials of the application of modern soft
   computing techniques into development stage of contemporary food products .
   recently , soft computing has been extensively studied and applied for
   scientific research and engineering purposes . in biological and food
   engineering , researchers have developed methods of fuzzy logic , artificial
   neural networks , genetic algorithms , decision trees , and support vector
   machines to study complex characteristics of many products in order to be
   adopted cost effective measures satisfying the production constraints and
   consumer expectations .
DE food; food composition; food mycology; fuzzy systems; neural networks; soft
   computing

---

UT 1792
AR Khan MIH, 2022, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V21, P1409, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.12912
TI Machine learning-based modeling in food processing applications: State of
   the art
AU Khan MIH; Sablani SS; Nayak R; Gu Y
TC 128
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2022
AB food processing is a complex , multifaceted problem that requires
   substantial human interaction to optimize the various process parameters to
   minimize energy consumption and ensure better quality products . the
   development of a machine learning ( ml ) -based approach to food processing
   applications is an exciting and innovative idea for optimizing process
   parameters and process kinetics to reduce energy consumption , processing
   time , and ensure better quality products . however , developing such a
   novel approach requires significant scientific effort . this paper presents
   and evaluates ml based approaches to various food processing operations such
   as drying , frying , baking , canning , extrusion , encapsulation , and
   fermentation to predict process kinetics . a step by step procedure to
   develop an ml based model and its practical implementation is presented .
   the key challenges of neural network training and testing algorithms and
   their limitations are discussed to assist readers in selecting algorithms
   for solving problems specific to food processing . in addition , this paper
   presents the potential and challenges of applying ml based techniques to
   hybrid food processing operations . the potential of physics informed ml
   modeling techniques for food processing applications and their strategies is
   also discussed . it is expected that the potential information of this paper
   will be valuable in advancing the ml based technology for food processing
   applications . 2022 institute of food technologists .
DE baking; canning; drying; frying; machine learning; physics-informed ml
   models
ID food handling; humans; machine learning; drying; machine learning; neural
   networks; based modeling; frying; machine learning models; physic-informed
   machine learning model; process kinetics; process parameters; processing
   applications; processing operations; quality product; state of the art; food
   handling; human; machine learning; procedures; energy utilization

---

UT 1793
AR Zulfikri ANM, 2022, IEEE SYMP IND ELECTRON APPL ISIEA, DOI
   10.1109/ISIEA54517.2022.9873669
TI Food Recognition based on Deep Learning Algorithms
AU Zulfikri ANM; Rahman FYA; Shabuddin S; Mohamad R
TC 5
SO IEEE SYMP IND ELECTRON APPL ISIEA
PY 2022
AB accurate methods can help the technology nowadays to keep improving and
   provide a reliable system for the people to use . in this paper , two
   different image classification systems . convolutional neural network ( cnn
   ) and residual neural network ( resnet ) were proposed in order to recognize
   six food classes . apple , orange , avocado , milo , vico and koko based on
   color features . then , the overall performance for both classifications
   were analyzed in the end of this paper . datasets of food images were
   collected from various sources consisting 400 images for each food classes
   to test the robustness of each classification system . the data were split
   into 60 % training data , 20 % validation data and 20 % testing data . the
   system that is proposed in this paper consist of 4 layers for convolutional
   neural network ( cnn ) while residual neural network ( resnet ) consist of
   50 layers . the color feature extraction that is involved for both
   classifications , rgb values ( red , green , blue ) are highly considered in
   order to determine the category of the food . overall , this experimental
   results on food recognition showed 100 % training accuracy and 98.67 %
   overall testing accuracy for cnn while 99.87 % training accuracy and 96.67 %
   overall testing accuracy for resnet
DE cnn; image classification; resnet
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; deep learning; fruits; multilayer neural networks; color features;
   convolutional neural network; image classification systems; images
   classification; neural networks; performance; reliable systems; residual
   neural network; testing accuracy; training accuracy; image classification

---

UT 1794
AR Tahir GA, 2021, COMPUT BIOL MED, V139, DOI 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2021.104972
TI Explainable deep learning ensemble for food image analysis on edge devices
AU Tahir GA; Loo CK
TC 27
SO COMPUT BIOL MED
PY 2021
AB food recognition systems recently garnered much research attention in the
   relevant field due to their ability to obtain objective measurements for
   dietary intake . this feature contributes to the management of various
   chronic conditions . challenges such as inter and intraclass variations
   alongside the practical applications of smart glasses , wearable cameras ,
   and mobile devices require resource efficient food recognition models with
   high classification performance . furthermore , explainable ai is also
   crucial in health related domains as it characterizes model performance ,
   enhancing its transparency and objectivity . our proposed architecture
   attempts to address these challenges by drawing on the strengths of the
   transfer learning technique upon initializing mobiletnetv3 with weights from
   a pre trained model of imagenet . the mobilenetv3 achieves superior
   performance using the squeeze and excitation strategy , providing unequal
   weight to different input channels and contrasting equal weights in other
   variants . despite being fast and efficient , there is a high possibility
   for it to be stuck in the local optima like other deep neural networks ,
   reducing the desired classification performance of the model . thus , we
   overcome this issue by applying the snapshot ensemble approach as it enables
   the m model in a single training process without any increase in the
   required training time . as a result , each snapshot in the ensemble visits
   different local minima before converging to the final solution which
   enhances recognition performance . on overcoming the challenge of
   explainability , we argue that explanations can not be monolithic , since
   each stakeholder perceive the results , explanations based on different
   objectives and aims . thus , we proposed a user centered explainable
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) framework to increase the trust of the
   involved parties by inferencing and rationalizing the results according to
   needs and user profile . our framework is comprehensive in terms of a
   dietary assessment app as it detects food / non food , food categories , and
   ingredients . experimental results on the standard food benchmarks and newly
   contributed malaysian food dataset for ingredient detection demonstrated
   superior performance on an integrated set of measures over other
   methodologies
DE data augmentation; deep learning; ensemble learning; explainable ai; food
   recognition; mobile application; neural network; user-centred explainable ai
ID artificial intelligence; deep learning; food; image processing computer-
   assisted; neural networks computer; deep neural networks; data augmentation;
   deep learning; ensemble learning; explainable artificial intelligence; food
   recognition; mobile applications; neural networks; performance; user-
   centered explainable artificial intelligence; user-centred; article;
   artificial intelligence; binary classification; classification algorithm;
   comparative study; convolutional neural network; decision making; deep
   learning; deep neural network; dietitian; food analysis; human; image
   analysis; machine learning; malaysian; mobile application; multi-label
   classification; nutritional assessment; radial basis function; support
   vector machine; transfer of learning; artificial intelligence; food; image
   processing; benchmarking

---

UT 1795
AR Mavani NR, 2022, FOOD ENG REV, V14, P134, DOI 10.1007/s12393-021-09290-z
TI Application of Artificial Intelligence in Food Industry—a Guideline
AU Mavani NR; Ali JM; Othman S; Hussain MA/1; Hashim H; Rahman NA
TC 283
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2022
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) has embodied the recent technology in the
   food industry over the past few decades due to the rising of food demands in
   line with the increasing of the world population . the capability of the
   said intelligent systems in various tasks such as food quality determination
   , control tools , classification of food , and prediction purposes has
   intensified their demand in the food industry . therefore , this paper
   reviews those diverse applications in comparing their advantages ,
   limitations , and formulations as a guideline for selecting the most
   appropriate methods in enhancing future ai and food industryrelated
   developments . furthermore , the integration of this system with other
   devices such as electronic nose , electronic tongue , computer vision system
   , and near infrared spectroscopy ( nir ) is also emphasized , all of which
   will benefit both the industry players and consumers
DE ai in food industry; food sensors; model development guidelines; nir; review
ID electronic nose; electronic tongues; infrared devices; intelligent systems;
   near infrared spectroscopy; computer vision system; control tools; diverse
   applications; food demand; food industries; food quality; world population;
   electronics industry

---

UT 1796
AR Zhang J/7, 2013, INT J FOOD PROP, V16, P1211, DOI
   10.1080/10942912.2011.582974
TI Prediction of equilibrium moisture content of various foods using a neural
   network
AU Zhang J/7; Mittal GS
TC 6
SO INT J FOOD PROP
PY 2013
AB a neural network was developed for learning the isotherm data and determined
   the relationship of equilibrium moisture content and relative humidity at
   various temperatures and for different food products . data were taken from
   the literature for 53 food products . neural network inputs were temperature
   , relative humidity or water activity , and food product number ( 1-53 ) or
   six binary elements ( 000001 to 110101 ) to express these food products .
   food product input in binary numbers provided much better accuracy than
   using numerical numbers . the optimum neural network structure was three
   middle layers with 30 nodes in each layer with 0.9 values of both learning
   rate and momentum . the mean relative error was only 2 % . 2013 copyright
   2013 crown copyright .
DE emc; equilibrium moisture content; neural network; predictive model; soft
   computing; water activity
ID electromagnetic compatibility; food products; moisture determination; soft
   computing; structural optimization; binary number; equilibrium moisture
   contents; isotherm data; learning rates; mean relative error; neural network
   structures; predictive models; water activity; neural networks

---

UT 1797
AR Emmanuel WRS, 2018, SADHANA, V43, DOI 10.1007/s12046-018-0865-3
TI Fuzzy clustering and Whale-based neural network to food recognition and
   calorie estimation for daily dietary assessment
AU Emmanuel WRS; Minija SJ/1
TC 17
SO SADHANA
PY 2018
AB the calorie value of the food items taken by the person in everyday life
   needs to be monitored to reduce the risk of obesity , heart problems , and
   diabetes , etc . the calorie estimator in the existing models has reduced
   accuracy since the calorie value of each food varies with mass . this paper
   introduces a dietary assessment system based on the proposed cauchy ,
   generalized t student , and wavelet kernel based wu and li index fuzzy
   clustering ( csw wlifc ) based segmentation and the proposed whale levenberg
   marquardt neural network ( wlm nn ) classifier . the proposed csw wlifc
   based segmentation segments the image based on the existing wli fc algorithm
   . a novel csw based kernel function is utilized in the segmentation process
   . feature vectors such as color , shape , and texture are extracted from the
   segmented image . the neural network is trained with the whale levenberg
   marquardt ( wlm ) model to recognize each food item from the tray image .
   the proposed calorie estimator calculates the calorie value of each food
   item . from the simulation results , it is evident that the proposed model
   has the improved performance than the existing models with the values of
   0.999 , 0.9643 , 0.9627 , and 0.0184 for the segmentation accuracy , macro
   average accuracy , standard accuracy , mean square error , respectively .
   2018 , indian academy of sciences .
DE csw-wlifc algorithm; dietary assessment; segmentation accuracy; whale-
   levenberg marquardt
ID fuzzy clustering; fuzzy inference; mean square error; calorie estimations;
   dietary assessments; feature vectors; food recognition; levenberg-marquardt;
   segmentation accuracy; segmentation process; segmented images; image
   segmentation

---

UT 1798
AR Liu C/4, 2018, IEEE TRANS SERV COMPUT, V11, P249, DOI
   10.1109/TSC.2017.2662008
TI A New Deep Learning-Based Food Recognition System for Dietary Assessment on
   An Edge Computing Service Infrastructure
AU Liu C/4; Cao Y/1; Luo Y/3; Chen G/1; Vokkarane V; Yunsheng M; Chen S/2; Hou
   P
TC 291
SO IEEE TRANS SERV COMPUT
PY 2018
AB literature has indicated that accurate dietary assessment is very important
   for assessing the effectiveness of weight loss interventions . however ,
   most of the existing dietary assessment methods rely on memory . with the
   help of pervasive mobile devices and rich cloud services , it is now
   possible to develop new computer aided food recognition system for accurate
   dietary assessment . however , enabling this future internet of things based
   dietary assessment imposes several fundamental challenges on algorithm
   development and system design . in this paper , we set to address these
   issues from the following two aspects : ( 1 ) to develop novel deep learning
   based visual food recognition algorithms to achieve the best in class
   recognition accuracy . ( 2 ) to design a food recognition system employing
   edge computing based service computing paradigm to overcome some inherent
   problems of traditional mobile cloud computing paradigm , such as
   unacceptable system latency and low battery life of mobile devices . we have
   conducted extensive experiments with real world data . our results have
   shown that the proposed system achieved three objectives : ( 1 )
   outperforming existing work in terms of food recognition accuracy . ( 2 )
   reducing response time that is equivalent to the minimum of the existing
   approaches . and ( 3 ) lowering energy consumption which is close to the
   minimum of the state of the art
DE deep learning; edge computing; food recognition; mobile applications; object
   recognition
ID deep learning; edge computing; energy utilization; human computer
   interaction; object recognition; algorithm development; computing services;
   dietary assessments; food recognition; mobile applications; recognition
   accuracy; service computing; state of the art; mobile cloud computing

---

UT 1799
AR Piplani P, 2022, PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW, P95, DOI
   10.1109/ICDEW55742.2022.00020
TI FoodPrint: Computing Carbon Footprint of Recipes
AU Piplani P; Gulati P; Malik S; Goyal S/1; Gurbaxani M; Bagler G
TC 3
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF DATA ENG WORK ICDEW
PY 2022
AB carbon footprint ( cf ) is an estimate of the total amount of greenhouse
   gasses emitted by a product , thus assessing the contribution to climate
   change from the product or service provided [ 1 ] . carbon footprint has
   acquired center stage in environmental debate as there has been increasing
   pressure on manufacturers to declare their product s impact on the
   environment . calculating the cf of a recipe is a complex task because
   natural processes are inherently variable . in this study , we calculate the
   cf of more than 67,000 recipes from recipedb [ 2 ] . this study aims to
   facilitate the design of an effective consumer communication strategy
   through a software developed for computing cf for a diverse set of recipes .
   it also considers ingredients in a particular recipe that are not available
   in the dataset upto a certain threshold and grants them an average value of
   cf
DE carbon footprint; food system; recipes; sustainability; sustainable food
ID climate change; greenhouse gasses; sustainable development; average values;
   communication strategy; complex task; food system; greenhouses gas; impact
   on the environment; natural process; recipe; sustainable food; carbon
   footprint

---

UT 1800
AR Aguilar E, 2021, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V1400 CCIS, P3, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-72379-8_1
TI Uncertainty Modeling and Deep Learning Applied to Food Image Analysis
AU Aguilar E; Nagarajan B; Khatun R; Bolaños M; Radeva P
TC 4
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2021
AB recognizing food images arises as a difficult image recognition task due to
   the high intra class variance and low inter class variance of food
   categories . deep learning has been shown as a promising methodology to
   address such difficult problems as food image recognition that can be
   considered as a fine grained object recognition problem . we argue that , in
   order to continue improving performance in this task , it is necessary to
   better understand what the model learns instead of considering it as a black
   box . in this paper , we show how uncertainty analysis can help us gain a
   better understanding of the model in the context of the food recognition .
   furthermore , we take decisions to improve its performance based on this
   analysis and propose a new data augmentation approach considering sample
   level uncertainty . the results of our method considering the evaluation on
   a public food dataset are very encouraging
DE deep learning; food recognition; uncertainty modeling
ID biomedical engineering; deep learning; image recognition; learning systems;
   object recognition; black boxes; data augmentation; fine grained; improving
   performance; inter class; object recognition problem; performance based;
   uncertainty modeling; uncertainty analysis

---

UT 1801
AR Dunstan J, 2020, HEAL INFORMATICS J, V26, P652, DOI 10.1177/1460458219845959
TI Predicting nationwide obesity from food sales using machine learning
AU Dunstan J; Aguirre M; Bastías M; Nau C; Glass TA; Tobar F
TC 50
SO HEAL INFORMATICS J
PY 2020
AB the obesity epidemic progresses everywhere across the globe , and
   implementing frequent nationwide surveys to measure the percentage of obese
   population is costly . conversely , country level food sales information can
   be accessed inexpensively through different suppliers on a regular basis .
   this study applies a methodology to predict obesity prevalence at the
   country level based on national sales of a small subset of food and beverage
   categories . three machine learning algorithms for nonlinear regression were
   implemented using purchase and obesity prevalence data from 79 countries :
   support vector machines , random forests and extreme gradient boosting . the
   proposed method was validated in terms of both the absolute prediction error
   and the proportion of countries for which the obesity prevalence was
   predicted satisfactorily . we found that the most relevant food category to
   predict obesity is baked goods and flours , followed by cheese and
   carbonated drinks
DE databases and data mining; food sales; machine learning; obesity; supervised
   learning
ID commerce; food; humans; machine learning; obesity; support vector machine;
   commercial phenomena; food; human; machine learning; obesity; support vector
   machine

---

UT 1802
AR Bilgin A, 2014, PROC - INT CONF INTELL ENV, P372, DOI 10.1109/IE.2014.57
TI An adaptive ambient intelligent platform for recommending recipes using
   computing with words
AU Bilgin A; Hagras H; Upasane S; Malibari A; Alhaddad MJ; Alghazzawi D
TC 1
SO PROC - INT CONF INTELL ENV
PY 2014
AB amongst ambient intelligence ( ami ) services in the home environment is
   improving the quality of life through increasing the comfort levels of the
   users . one of the ways to meet user friendly comfort requirements of an
   intelligent space is to establish more natural ways of interaction and hence
   a more serene communication between the humans and the intelligent systems .
   inspired from the remarkable human mind , a trending research direction of
   fuzzy logic coined as computing with words aims to link the computers and
   the users in a humanlike manner . in this video , we present fragments of
   lives of 3 different users and how an adaptive ambient intelligent platform
   for recommending recipes using computing with words ( cwws ) helps enhance
   the comfort levels of users having diverse needs . the video also shows how
   this interaction is achieved by the cwws framework components and the
   integration with a humanoid robot to promote assisted living in intelligent
   environments
DE ambient intelligence; computing with words; fuzzy logic
ID ambient intelligence; anthropomorphic robots; computer circuits; fuzzy
   logic; intelligent agents; intelligent systems; recommender systems; soft
   computing; ambient intelligent; computing with word ( cww ); home
   environment; humanoid robot; intelligent environment; intelligent spaces;
   quality of life; user friendly; intelligent robots

---

UT 1803
AR [Anonymous], 2022, PROC INT CONF CONTEMP COMPUT INFORMATICS IC3I, P1308, DOI
   10.1109/IC3I56241.2022.10073315
TI IoT and Machine Learning Based Food Recognition System
TC 9
SO PROC INT CONF CONTEMP COMPUT INFORMATICS IC3I
PY 2022
AB in a world where people are busy with job life , people who stay away from
   family and live in far cities , who have no one to go back home to , it is
   difficult to balance home and work life . here the social because we are
   working on is about how people will not know what fruits or vegetables are
   present at home and they have to travel back home just to check which will
   cowhide h lot of time and energy . in this study , with the help of iot and
   machine learning , we will study how to information about what is there in
   our fridge or anywhere where food is kept to our phones via the cloud .
   machine learning is used here to detect what and how many vegetables or
   fruits are there using the supervised algorithm cal the led the knn
   algorithm . iot is deployed here to retrieve information from the room cloud
   and send it to our phones using the blynk app
DE food recognition; fruits; iot; machine learning; vegetables
ID internet of things; learning algorithms; machine learning; vegetables;
   energy; food recognition; home life; iot; machine learning; recognition
   systems; supervised algorithm; work life; fruits

---

UT 1804
AR Furtado P, 2020, BIOIMAGING - INT CONF BIOIMAGING PROC; INT JT CONF BIOMED
   ENG SYST TECHNOL BIOSTEC, P102, DOI 10.5220/0008893301020108
TI Food recognition: Can deep learning or bag-of-words match humans?
AU Furtado P
TC 1
SO BIOIMAGING - INT CONF BIOIMAGING PROC; INT JT CONF BIOMED ENG SYST TECHNOL
   BIOSTEC
PY 2020
AB automated smartphone based food recognition is a useful basis for
   applications targeted at dietary assessment . dish recognition is a
   necessary step in that process . one of the possible approaches to use is
   deep learning based recognition , another one is bag of words based
   classification . deep learning has increasingly become the preferred
   approach to use in either this or other image classification tasks .
   additionally , if humans are better recognizing the dish , the automated
   approach is useless ( it will be less error prone for the user to identify
   the dish instead of capturing the photo ) . we compare the alternatives of
   deep learning ( dl ) , bag of words ( bow ) and humans ( h ) . the best deep
   learner beats humans when on few food categories , but looses if it has to
   learn many more food categories , which is expected in real contexts . we
   describe the approaches , analyze the results , draw conclusions and design
   further work to evaluate further and improve the approaches
DE bag-of-words; deep learning; food recognition
ID computer graphics; computer vision; deep learning; automated approach; bag-
   of-words; classification tasks; deep learning; dietary assessments; error
   prones; food recognition; images classification; smart phones; word matches;
   smartphones

---

UT 1805
AR Pan L, 2020, COMPUT MATER CONTIN, V62, P731, DOI 10.32604/cmc.2020.06508
TI A novel combinational convolutional neural network for automatic food-
   ingredient classification
AU Pan L; Li C/5; Pouyanfar S; Chen R/1; Zhou Y/5
TC 20
SO COMPUT MATER CONTIN
PY 2020
AB with the development of deep learning and convolutional neural networks (
   cnns ) , the accuracy of automatic food recognition based on visual data
   have significantly improved . some research studies have shown that the
   deeper the model is , the higher the accuracy is . however , very deep
   neural networks would be affected by the overfitting problem and also
   consume huge computing resources . in this paper , a new classification
   scheme is proposed for automatic food ingredient recognition based on deep
   learning . we construct an up to date combinational convolutional neural
   network ( cbnet ) with a subnet merging technique . firstly , two different
   neural networks are utilized for learning interested features . then , a
   well designed feature fusion component aggregates the features from
   subnetworks , further extracting richer and more precise features for image
   classification . in order to learn more complementary features , the
   corresponding fusion strategies are also proposed , including auxiliary
   classifiers and hyperparameters setting . finally , cbnet based on the well
   known vggnet , resnet and densenet is evaluated on a dataset including 41
   major categories of food ingredients and 100 images for each category .
   theoretical analysis and experimental results demonstrate that cbnet
   achieves promising accuracy for multi class classification and improves the
   performance of convolutional neural networks . 2020 tech science press
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; feature fusion; food ingredient
   recognition; multi-class classification
ID classification ( of information ); classifiers; convolution; deep learning;
   deep neural networks; food additives; learning systems; classification
   scheme; complementary features; computing resource; feature fusion; food
   ingredients; merging techniques; multi-class classification; over fitting
   problem; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1806
AR Oleksiv N, 2021, CEUR WORK PROC, V2917, P373
TI Information system of dynamic and adaptive control of human diet based on
   machine learning technology
AU Oleksiv N; Oborska O; Mykich K; Mushasta S; Pukach Y; Tereshchuk O
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2021
AB it is acknowledged that the way of each person s life , group of people and
   nations is formed depending on the specifics of geographical , economic ,
   political , cultural , and religious conditions . lifestyle is created due
   to daily repetition and consists of the following factors : nutrition ,
   exercise , the presence of bad habits , moral and spiritual development ,
   and so on . in recent decades , lifestyle has been considered an integral
   part of well being , leading to increased research in this area . according
   to scientific research , more than half of health problems are related to
   diet . unfortunately , millions of people eat incorrectly and are not even
   aware of it . there are many approaches to solving diet control , but it
   should be understood that different analogs offer different opportunities
   that are not always clear and convenient . it is because there are several
   ways to achieve the same goal . the need for research on healthy eating in
   modern conditions is one of the priority tasks to improve the physical
   condition of different age groups . the aim is to create a system that will
   be aimed at helping the end user to follow a healthy diet by determining the
   composition and caloric content of the product and the formation of
   recommendations based on the appropriate rhythm of life . the system is
   designed to solve specific tasks : to recognize products , to correlate the
   product and its caloric content , to form a food diary , to remind the user
   about missed meals and to keep statistics . 2021 copyright for this paper by
   its authors . use permitted under creative commons license attribution 4.0
   international ( cc by 4.0 ) . ceur workshop proceedings ( ceur ws . org )
DE artificial intelligence; business logic; caloric content; calorie counter
   system; computer vision; convolutional neural network; cross-platform;
   developed system; diet control; food diary; image recognition; information
   system; machine learning; mobile application; mobile device; modern machine
   learning technology; neural network; process product recognition; relational
   database; user profile
ID behavioral research; data science; machine learning; nutrition; adaptive
   control; caloric content; integral part; physical conditions; priority
   tasks; rhythm of lives; scientific researches; specific tasks; adaptive
   control systems

---

UT 1807
AR Wang W/6, 2013, PROC - IEEE INT CONF GREEN COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INTERNET
   THINGS IEEE CYBER PHYS SOC COMPUT GREENCOM-ITHINGS-CPSCOM, P2243, DOI
   10.1109/GreenCom-iThings-CPSCom.2013.425
TI Towards a pervasive cloud computing based food image recognition
AU Wang W/6; Duan P; Zhang W; Gong F; Zhang P; Rao Y
TC 7
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF GREEN COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INTERNET THINGS IEEE CYBER
   PHYS SOC COMPUT GREENCOM-ITHINGS-CPSCOM
PY 2013
AB food image recognition is challenging due to the diversity of food , and
   color , light , view angles effect on food image . the recognition process
   is also a computation heavy process . therefore , we also propose to use
   pervasive cloud computing paradigm to improve the performance of food image
   recognition . based on empirical and experimental explorations , we propose
   to use sift ( scale invariant feature transform ) and gabor descriptors as
   food image features and kmeans algorithm for feature clustering .
   evaluations show that the proposed approach can give acceptable recognition
   rate with good performance gains
DE gabor; image recognition; k-means; pervasive cloud computing; sift
ID cloud computing; internet; computing paradigm; feature clustering; gabor;
   k-means; k-means algorithm; recognition process; scale invariant feature
   transforms; sift; image recognition

---

UT 1808
AR Maurya A, 2019, INT CONF NASCENT TECHNOL ENG ICNTE - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ICNTE44896.2019.8946029
TI Chronic Kidney Disease Prediction and Recommendation of Suitable Diet Plan
   by using Machine Learning
AU Maurya A; Wable R; Shinde R; John S; Jadhav R; Dakshayani R
TC 49
SO INT CONF NASCENT TECHNOL ENG ICNTE - PROC
PY 2019
AB chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) is a type of kidney disease in which there is
   gradual loss of kidney function over a period of months or years .
   prediction of this disease is one of the most important problems in medical
   fields . so automated tool which will use machine learning techniques to
   determine the patient s kidney condition that will be helpful to the doctors
   in prediction of chronic kidney disease and hence better treatment . the
   proposed system extracts the features which are responsible for ckd , then
   machine learning process can automate the classification of the chronic
   kidney disease in different stages according to its severity . the objective
   is to use machine learning algorithm and suggest suitable diet plan for ckd
   patient using classification algorithm on medical test records . diet
   recommendation for patient will be given according to potassium zone which
   is calculated using blood potassium level to slow down the progression of
   ckd
DE chronic kidney disease; diet; machine learning; prediction
ID forecasting; learning algorithms; learning systems; medical problems;
   nutrition; patient treatment; potassium; automated tools; chronic kidney
   disease; classification algorithm; different stages; kidney disease; kidney
   function; machine learning techniques; medical fields; machine learning

---

UT 1809
AR Caballero D, 2017, IEEE LAT TRANS, V15, P1777, DOI 10.1109/TLA.2017.8015085
TI New fractal features and data mining to determine food quality based on MRI
AU Caballero D; Caro A; Ávila MDM; Garcia Rodríguez P; Antequera T; Pérez
   Palacios T
TC 18
SO IEEE LAT TRANS
PY 2017
AB the extraction of textural information from images to explore parameters
   related to food quality is very common . in this paper , the extraction of
   quality features from mri is performed by a new fractal algorithm and second
   order statistics , as an alternative to the classical texture approaches .
   the proposed method needs fewer features than classical textures , computing
   them with a lower computational complexity . quality characteristics from
   mri of iberian loins are extracted to validate the practical application of
   the proposed algorithm . the new method is compared to the standard fractal
   algorithm and also to the classical texture approaches . characteristics
   obtained by means of the new fractal algorithm , by the standard fractal
   algorithm , and by the three classical texture methods are correlated to the
   results obtained by using physico chemical methods . the correlations
   achieve coefficients higher than 0.75. therefore , the new algorithm could
   be used to calculate quality parameters of meat products in a non
   destructive and efficient way , being also suitable for the meat industries
   to characterize meat products
DE data mining; food technology; fractals; mri; texture features
ID data mining; extraction; food technology; magnetic resonance imaging; meats;
   fractal algorithms; physicochemical methods; quality characteristic; quality
   features; quality parameters; second order statistics; textural information;
   texture features; fractals

---

UT 1810
AR Westerveld JJL, 2021, SCI ENV, V786, DOI 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.147366
TI Forecasting transitions in the state of food security with machine learning
   using transferable features
AU Westerveld JJL; van den Homberg MJC; Nobre GG; van den Berg DLJ; Teklesadik
   AD; Stuit SM
TC 62
SO SCI ENV
PY 2021
AB food insecurity is a growing concern due to man made conflicts , climate
   change , and economic downturns . forecasting the state of food insecurity
   is essential to be able to trigger early actions , for example , by
   humanitarian actors . to measure the actual state of food insecurity ,
   expert and consensus based approaches and surveys are currently used . both
   require substantial manpower , time , and budget . this paper introduces an
   extreme gradient boosting machine learning model to forecast monthly
   transitions in the state of food security in ethiopia , at a spatial
   granularity of livelihood zones , and for lead times of one to 12 months ,
   using open source data . the transition in the state of food security ,
   hereafter referred to as predictand , is represented by the integrated food
   security phase classification data . from 19 categories of datasets , 130
   variables were derived and used as predictors of the transition in the state
   of food security . the predictors represent changes in climate and land ,
   market , conflict , infrastructure , demographics and livelihood zone
   characteristics . the most relevant predictors are found to be food security
   history and surface soil moisture . overall , the model performs best for
   forecasting deteriorations and improvements in the state of food security
   compared to the baselines . the proposed method performs ( f1 macro score )
   at least twice as well as the best baseline ( a dummy classifier ) for a
   deterioration . the model performs better when forecasting long term ( 7
   months . f1 macro average = 0.61 ) compared to short term ( 3 months . f1
   macro average = 0.51 ) . combining machine learning , integrated phase
   classification ( ipc ) ratings from monitoring systems , and open data can
   add value to existing consensus based forecasting approaches as this
   combination provides longer lead times and more regular updates . our
   approach can also be transferred to other countries as most of the data on
   the predictors are openly available from global data repositories
DE early warning systems; extreme gradient boosting; food security; ipc;
   machine learning; open data
ID ethiopia; adaptive boosting; budget control; classification ( of information
   ); climate change; deterioration; food supply; forecasting; open data; soil
   moisture; early warning system; economic downturn; extreme gradient
   boosting; food insecurity; food security; gradient boosting; integrated
   phase classification; machine learning; open datum; phase classification;
   dataset; early warning system; food security; forecasting method; machine
   learning; article; budget; classifier; climate; consensus; demography;
   deterioration; ethiopia; food security; forecasting; human; moisture;
   surface soil; workforce; machine learning

---

UT 1811
AR Furtado P, 2020, COMPUT VIS IMAGE UNDERST, V191, DOI
   10.1016/j.cviu.2019.102878
TI Human Visual System vs Convolution Neural Networks in food recognition task:
   An empirical comparison
AU Furtado P; Caldeira M; Martins P
TC 7
SO COMPUT VIS IMAGE UNDERST
PY 2020
AB automated food recognition from food plate is useful for smartphone based
   applications promoting healthy lifestyles and for automated carbohydrate
   counting , e . g . targeted at type i diabetic patients , but the variation
   of appearance of food items makes it a difficult task . convolution neural
   networks ( cnns ) raised to prominence in recent years , and they will
   enable those applications if they are able to match hvs accuracy at least in
   meal classification . in this work we run an experimental comparison of
   accuracy between cnns and hvs based on a simple meal recognition task . we
   set up a survey for humans with two phases , training and testing , and also
   give the food dataset to state of the art cnns . the results , considering
   some relevant variations in the setup , allow us to reach conclusions
   regarding the comparison , characteristics and limitations of cnns , which
   are relevant for future improvements
DE deep learning; food recognition; machine learning
ID convolution; learning systems; smartphones; statistical tests; convolution
   neural network; diabetic patient; empiricalcomparisons; experimental
   comparison; future improvements; healthy lifestyles; human visual system;
   training and testing; deep learning

---

UT 1812
AR Liu Y-C, 2022, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V11, DOI 10.3390/electronics11101626
TI Deep-Learning-Assisted Multi-Dish Food Recognition Application for Dietary
   Intake Reporting
AU Liu Y-C; Onthoni DD; Mohapatra S; Irianti D; Sahoo PK
TC 38
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2022
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is among the major emerging research areas
   and industrial application fields . an important area of its application is
   in the preventive healthcare domain , in which appropriate dietary intake
   reporting is critical in assessing nutrient content . the traditional
   dietary assessment is cumbersome in terms of dish accuracy and time
   consuming . the recent technology in computer vision with automatic
   recognition of dishes has the potential to support better dietary assessment
   . however , due to the wide variety of available foods , especially local
   dishes , improvements in food recognition are needed . in this research , we
   proposed an ai based multiple dish food recognition model using the
   efficientdet deep learning ( dl ) model . the designed model was developed
   taking into consideration three types of meals , namely single dish , mixed
   dish , and multiple dish , from local taiwanese cuisine . the results
   demonstrate high mean average precision ( map ) = 0.92 considering 87 types
   of dishes . with high recognition performance , the proposed model has the
   potential for a promising solution to enhancing dish reporting . our future
   work includes further improving the performance of the algorithms and
   integrating our system into a real world mobile and cloud computing based
   system to enhance the accuracy of current dietary intake reporting tasks
DE artificial intelligence; deep learning; dietary assessment; efficientdet;
   food image recognition; mhealth; multiple-dish

---

UT 1813
AR Hategan AR, 2021, APPL SCI, V11, DOI 10.3390/app11156723
TI Opportunities and constraints in applying artificial neural networks (Anns)
   in food authentication.  honey—a case study
AU Hategan AR; Puscas R; Cristea G; Dehelean A; Guyon F; Molnar AJ; Mirel V;
   Magdas DA
TC 19
SO APPL SCI
PY 2021
AB the present work aims to test the potential of the application of artificial
   neural networks ( anns ) for food authentication . for this purpose , honey
   was chosen as the working matrix . the samples were originated from two
   countries : romania ( 50 ) and france ( 53 ) , having as floral origins :
   acacia , linden , honeydew , colza , galium verum , coriander , sunflower ,
   thyme , raspberry , lavender and chestnut . the anns were built on the
   isotope and elemental content of the investigated honey samples . this
   approach conducted to the development of a prediction model for geographical
   recognition with an accuracy of 96 % . alongside this work , distinct models
   were developed and tested , with the aim of identifying the most suitable
   configurations for this application . in this regard , improvements have
   been continuously performed . the most important of them consisted in
   overcoming the unwanted phenomenon of over fitting , observed for the
   training data set . this was achieved by identifying appropriate values for
   the number of iterations over the training data and for the size and number
   of the hidden layers and by introducing of a dropout layer in the
   configuration of the neural structure . as a conclusion , anns can be
   successfully applied in food authenticity control , but with a degree of
   caution with respect to the ' over optimization ' of the correct
   classification percentage for the training sample set , which can lead to an
   over fitted model
DE anns; food authentication; geographical differentiation; honey; recognition
   models

---

UT 1814
AR Jahani Heravi E, 2015, PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG, V9875, DOI
   10.1117/12.2228875
TI A deep convolutional neural network for recognizing foods
AU Jahani Heravi E; Habibi Aghdam H; Puig D
TC 1
SO PROC SPIE INT SOC OPT ENG
PY 2015
AB controlling the food intake is an efficient way that each person can
   undertake to tackle the obesity problem in countries worldwide . this is
   achievable by developing a smartphone application that is able to recognize
   foods and compute their calories . state of art methods are chiefly based on
   hand crafted feature extraction methods such as hog and gabor . recent
   advances in large scale object recognition datasets such as imagenet have
   revealed that deep convolutional neural networks ( cnn ) possess more
   representation power than the hand crafted features . the main challenge
   with cnns is to find the appropriate architecture for each problem . in this
   paper , we propose a deep cnn which consists of 769 . 988 parameters . our
   experiments show that the proposed cnn outperforms the state of art methods
   and improves the best result of traditional methods 17 % . moreover , using
   an ensemble of two cnns that have been trained two different times , we are
   able to improve the classification performance 21:5 %
DE convolutional neural networks; data augmentation; deep learning; food
   recognition
ID convolution; feature extraction; neural networks; object recognition;
   classification performance; convolutional neural network; data augmentation;
   deep learning; feature extraction methods; representation power; smartphone
   applications; state-of-art methods; computer vision

---

UT 1815
AR Hossen MS, 2020, INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL IND 40 STI, DOI
   10.1109/STI50764.2020.9350439
TI Predicting the Probability of Covid-19 Recovered in South Asian Countries
   Based on Healthy Diet Pattern Using a Machine Learning Approach
AU Hossen MS; Karmoker D
TC 21
SO INT CONF SUSTAIN TECHNOL IND 40 STI
PY 2020
AB recently a global terror has taken place around all over the world named of
   covid 19 disease . the main because of this disease is sars cov 2 virus . a
   huge number of population of the world is losing lives daily for this
   terrible virus . but in the global survey for this disease we found that the
   people also getting recovered from this frightening disease . the most
   important thing that works behind the recovery against this virus is the
   immunity power of human body . immunity power is not same for all human body
   . immunity power of human depends on the food habit of them . in this
   research we will try to determine the probability of covid 19 recovered in
   south asian countries based on healthy diet pattern using data mining and
   various machine learning algorithms . we have used random forest , support
   vector machine ( svm ) and k nearest neighbor ( knn ) are the several
   machine learning algorithms to predict the recovery rate of covid 19
   affecting patients
DE coronavirus; covid-19; healthy diet; immunity; sars-cov-2
ID data mining; decision trees; diseases; industry 40; learning systems;
   nearest neighbor search; patient rehabilitation; recovery; support vector
   machines; surveys; turing machines; viruses; asian countries; food habit;
   healthy diet; human bodies; k-nearest neighbor ( knn ); machine learning
   approaches; recovery rate; learning algorithms

---

UT 1816
AR Ozsert Yigit G, 2017, PROC - IEEE INT CONF INNOV INTELL SYST APPL INISTA,
   P349, DOI 10.1109/INISTA.2017.8001184
TI Comparison of convolutional neural network models for food image
   classification
AU Ozsert Yigit G; Ozyildirim BM
TC 12
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF INNOV INTELL SYST APPL INISTA
PY 2017
AB according to some estimates of world health organization ( who ) , in 2014 ,
   more than 1.9 billion adults aged 18 years and older were overweight .
   overall , about 13 % of the world s adult population ( 11 % of men and 15 %
   of women ) were obese . 39 % of adults aged 18 years and over ( 38 % of men
   and 40 % of women ) were overweight . the worldwide prevalence of obesity
   more than doubled between 1980 and 2014 . the purpose of this study is to
   design a convolutional neural network model and provide a food dataset
   collection to distinguish the nutrition groups which people take in daily
   life . for this aim , both two pretrained models alexnet and caffenet were
   finetuned and a similar structure was trained with dataset . food images
   were generated from food 11 , foodd , food100 datasets and web archives .
   according to the test results , finetuned models provided better results
   than trained structure as expected . however , trained model can be improved
   by using more training examples and can be used as specific structure for
   classification of nutrition groups
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food classification; nutrition
   categorization
ID deep learning; image classification; intelligent systems; neural networks;
   nutrition; adult populations; convolutional neural network; daily lives;
   food image; training example; web archives; world health organization;
   convolution

---

UT 1817
AR Tanui CK, 2022, PATHOG, V11, DOI 10.3390/pathogens11060691
TI A Machine Learning Model for Food Source Attribution of Listeria
   monocytogenes
AU Tanui CK; Benefo EO; Karanth S; Pradhan AK
TC 39
SO PATHOG
PY 2022
AB despite its low morbidity , listeriosis has a high mortality rate due to the
   severity of its clinical manifestations . the source of human listeriosis is
   often unclear . in this study , we investigate the ability of machine
   learning to predict the food source from which clinical listeria
   monocytogenes isolates originated . four machine learning classification
   algorithms were trained on core genome multilocus sequence typing data of
   1212 l . monocytogenes isolates from various food sources . the average
   accuracies of random forest , support vector machine radial kernel ,
   stochastic gradient boosting , and logit boost were found to be 0.72 , 0.61
   , 0.7 , and 0.73 , respectively . logit boost showed the best performance
   and was used in model testing on 154 l . monocytogenes clinical isolates .
   the model attributed 17.5 % of human clinical cases to dairy , 32.5 % to
   fruits , 14.3 % to leafy greens , 9.7 % to meat , 4.6 % to poultry , and
   18.8 % to vegetables . the final model also provided us with genetic
   features that were predictive of specific sources . thus , this combination
   of genomic data and machine learning based models can greatly enhance our
   ability to track l . monocytogenes from different food sources
DE food source attribution; listeria monocytogenes; machine learning;
   predictive modeling; whole genome sequencing
ID article; bacterium isolate; classification algorithm; climate model; core
   genome; fruit; human; leafy vegetable; listeria monocytogenes; machine
   learning; multilocus sequence typing; nonhuman; poultry; random forest;
   stochastic model; support vector machine; vegetable; whole genome sequencing

---

UT 1818
AR Nagamalla V, 2022, J FOOD QUAL, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/6163649
TI Detection of Adulteration in Food Using Recurrent Neural Network with
   Internet of Things
AU Nagamalla V; Kumar BM; Janu N; Preetham A; Parambil Gangadharan SM;
   Alqahtani MA; Ratna R
TC 18
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2022
AB food is an essential need for human survival . throughout history , food has
   been recognized as a crucial need for people in order to maintain good
   health as well as to treat illness . as with all living things , it is one
   of the most basic necessities that man has as well as those of all other
   living creatures . in a recent publication , it was said that an extremely
   affordable , robust , and biocompatible impedance sensor that serves as a
   fractional order element has been created and may be used to distinguish
   milk and tainted milk . a complete study on milk adulteration includes more
   than 160 academic articles on the topic . a comprehensive study on milk
   adulteration is available online . specifically , the goal of this research
   is to discover various types of milk adulterants , different approaches for
   detecting each kind of adulterant , as well as the health hazards associated
   with milk product adulteration . in the proposed project , the fractional
   order element would be investigated for its potential use in the detection
   of milk adulteration . with this fractional order element based impedance
   sensor , you can distinguish between different types of contaminated milk
   and different types of faking it , which is quite useful in the detection
   and differentiation of fake and real milk . according to the researchers ,
   they have created a low cost , user friendly instrumentation system for
   detecting milk adulteration . they hope to commercialize it soon . an
   automated sensing system for the detection of synthetic milk , based on a
   microcontroller , has been created in order to reduce the reliance on
   specialized labor and to improve efficiency . in order to model the sensor ,
   the dipole layer capacitance at the interface of the impedance sensor
   immersed in milk and the contaminated milk must be taken into account
   throughout the modeling process . in this study , an electrical equivalent
   circuit is built , and the correctness of the circuit is shown by both
   theoretical and experimental investigation . the detection of milk
   adulteration is classified with the use of recurrent neural networks , and
   the status is updated in the cloud server with the help of the internet of
   things and recurrent neural networks . it is estimated that the proposed
   work will have an accuracy rate of 92.31 percent , a sensitivity rate of
   75.23 percent , and a specificity rate of 90.12 percent , all of which are
   higher than the present rate . 2022 vishwesh nagamalla et al .
ID biocompatibility; costs; equivalent circuits; health hazards; internet of
   things; contaminated milk; element-based; fractional order; human survival;
   impedance sensors; living creatures; living things; low-costs; milk
   adulterations; milk products; recurrent neural networks

---

UT 1819
AR Kumar I, 2021, J FOOD QUAL, V2021, DOI 10.1155/2021/4535567
TI Opportunities of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in the Food
   Industry
AU Kumar I; Rawat J; Mohd N; Husain S
TC 329
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2021
AB the food processing and handling industry is the most significant business
   among the various manufacturing industries in the entire world that
   subsidize the highest employability . the human workforce plays an essential
   role in the smooth execution of the production and packaging of food
   products . due to the involvement of humans , the food industries are
   failing to maintain the demand supply chain and also lacking in food safety
   . to overcome these issues of food industries , industrial automation is the
   best possible solution . automation is completely based on artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) or machine learning ( ml ) or deep learning ( dl )
   algorithms . by using the ai based system , food production and delivery
   processes can be efficiently handled and also enhance the operational
   competence . this article is going to explain the ai applications in the
   food industry which recommends a huge amount of capital saving with
   maximizing resource utilization by reducing human error . artificial
   intelligence with data science can improve the quality of restaurants ,
   cafes , online delivery food chains , hotels , and food outlets by
   increasing production utilizing different fitting algorithms for sales
   prediction . ai could significantly improve packaging , increasing shelf
   life , a combination of the menu by using ai algorithms , and food safety by
   making a more transparent supply chain management system . with the help of
   ai and ml , the future of food industries is completely based on smart
   farming , robotic farming , and drones . 2021 indrajeet kumar et al .
ID accident prevention; data science; deep learning; food processing; food
   products; industrial robots; learning systems; supply chain management;
   delivery process; fitting algorithms; increasing production; industrial
   automation; manufacturing industries; packaging of foods; resource
   utilizations; supply chain management system; food safety

---

UT 1820
AR Srivastava R, 2022, MACH LEARN ALGORITHMS ENG APPLIC FUTUR TRENDS RES DIR,
   P121
TI The role of machine learning in the food industry
AU Srivastava R; Tyagi P; Nand P; Sharma A/1; Jha NK; Jha SK
TC 0
SO MACH LEARN ALGORITHMS ENG APPLIC FUTUR TRENDS RES DIR
PY 2022
AB the present era seeks progressive and rapid growth in the food industry
   which can be drawn by using machine learning concepts . being a complex
   process , food production has huge relevant uncertainties like . variability
   in raw materials and ingredients , stochastic yield and demand , and others
   . this results in the differences between planned / forecasted production
   and actual / real output . these inconsistencies put a negative impact on
   the economic cost of the company as well as on the employment rate . many
   traditional approaches are in use to combat this but the significance of
   these approaches is quite low . machine learning can be key facilitators for
   empowering the research and concepts which bring uncertainties in food
   industries . machine learning is already presented as an asset for the food
   industry in a number of the researches like . predicting and managing the
   sales , forecasting the yield , and others . furthermore , machine learning
   algorithms can prove themselves : to conclude interpretable rules for
   classifying samples regardless of the non linearity . to extract functioning
   human knowledge from a list of set examples , and help to discover the
   degree of influence of each objective attribute of the assessed food . thus
   , this chapter integrates the recent findings regarding the applications and
   impact of machine learning in the food industry . further , a profound and
   condensed understanding of this heterogeneity may enable the optimization
   and exploitation of machine learning approaches in the related field
DE food industry; machine learning

---

UT 1821
AR Lu M, 2021, ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT, V1342 AISC, P645, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-70042-3_92
TI Application of Big Data and Cloud Computing in Food Analysis Data Processing
AU Lu M
TC 0
SO ADV INTELL SYS COMPUT
PY 2021
AB the phenomenon of food analysis information island has existed for a long
   time , and the risk control of food safety has always been the problem of
   information asymmetry between enterprises , regulatory authorities ] and
   consumers . how to solve the above problems ( not only these problems ) ,
   has long tested people s patience . in recent years , co governance of food
   safety in the whole society has become extremely expensive . the slogan of
   strengthening the source management of food safety and paying attention to
   the first kilometer and the last kilometer has also made people s hearing
   numb . however , the actual action is that the authorities feel embarrassed
   , and the people have already turned a blind eye to it . to thoroughly solve
   the food safety problem in china , we must first have a premise and a
   foundation : the premise is the construction of big data , and the
   foundation is the cloud computing platform . one of the two is indispensable
   . before explaining this insight , let us briefly review what big data and
   cloud computing are and how they relate
DE big data; cloud computing; food analysis
ID audition; cloud computing; food safety; risk assessment; safety engineering;
   security of data; cloud computing platforms; food analysis; information
   asymmetry; information island; regulatory authorities; risk controls; source
   management; big data

---

UT 1822
AR Bhagya Raj GVS, 2022, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V62, P2756, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2020.1858398
TI Comprehensive study on applications of artificial neural network in food
   process modeling
AU Bhagya Raj GVS; Dash KK
TC 193
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2022
AB artificial neural network ( ann ) is a simplified model of the biological
   nervous system consisting of nerve cells or neurons . the application of ann
   to food process engineering is relatively novel . ann had been employed in
   diverse applications like food safety and quality analyzes , food image
   analysis , and modeling of various thermal and non thermal food processing
   operations . ann has the ability to map nonlinear relationships without any
   prior knowledge and predicts responses even with incomplete information .
   every neural network possesses data in the form of connection weights
   interconnecting lines between the input to hidden layer neurons and weights
   of hidden to output layer neurons , which has a significant role in
   predicting the output data . the applications of ann in different unit
   operations in food processing were described that includes theoretical
   developments using intelligent characteristics for adaptability , automatic
   learning , classification , and prediction . the parallel architecture of
   ann resulted in a fast response and low computational time making it
   suitable for application in real time systems of different food process
   operations . the predicted responses obtained by the ann model exhibited
   high accuracy due to lower relative deviation and root mean squared error
   and higher correlation coefficient . this paper presented the various
   applications of ann for modeling nonlinear food engineering problems . the
   application of ann in the modeling of the processes such as extraction ,
   extrusion , drying , filtration , canning , fermentation , baking , dairy
   processing , and quality evaluation was reviewed . highlights 1. this paper
   discusses application of ann in different emerging trends in food process .
   2. application of ann to develop non linear multivariate modeling is
   illustrated . 3. anns have been shown to be useful tool for prediction of
   outcomes with high accuracy . 4. ann resulted in fast response making it
   suitable for application in real time systems
DE artificial neural network; drying; encapsulation; extraction; extrusion;
   neurons
ID desiccation; food handling; neural networks computer; neurons; bakeries;
   forecasting; interactive computer systems; mean square error; multilayer
   neural networks; neurons; parallel architectures; process engineering;
   processed foods; quality control; real time systems; correlation
   coefficient; diverse applications; hidden layer neurons; incomplete
   information; multivariate modeling; nonlinear relationships; root mean
   squared errors; theoretical development; artificial neural network;
   correlation coefficient; encapsulation; extraction; fermentation;
   filtration; food processing; learning; nerve cell network; prediction;
   process model; review; theoretical study; desiccation; food handling; nerve
   cell; procedures; thermal processing ( foods )

---

UT 1823
AR Mezgec S, 2019, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA, P5149, DOI
   10.1109/BigData47090.2019.9006181
TI Using Deep Learning for Food and Beverage Image Recognition
AU Mezgec S; Seljak BK/2
TC 31
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIG DATA BIG DATA
PY 2019
AB recently , deep learning achieved the state of the art in the field of food
   image recognition . in this paper we describe our deep learning
   contributions to the field : nutrinet , a novel deep learning architecture ,
   and a pixel level classification solution for images of fake food . nutrinet
   was trained on a food image dataset of a larger size and containing more
   food classes than previous works , and was the first to recognize beverage
   images . our work on fake food image recognition includes the first
   automatic system for recognizing images of fake food , while the visual
   similarity of fake and real food makes it useful for fake food experiments
   as well as real food recognition
DE beverage image recognition; deep learning; fake food; food image recognition
ID beverages; big data; image recognition; automatic systems; food image;
   learning architectures; pixel level; real foods; state of the art; visual
   similarity; deep learning

---

UT 1824
AR Rodríguez-Pulido FJ, 2013, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V99, P108, DOI
   10.1016/j.compag.2013.08.027
TI Analysis of food appearance properties by computer vision applying
   ellipsoids to colour data
AU Rodríguez-Pulido FJ; Gordillo B; Lourdes González-Miret M; Heredia FJ
TC 45
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2013
AB the use of computer vision for estimating composition in food products has
   become wide spread in recent years , especially for products where by
   measuring color or other spectral features , we are able to estimate the
   composition , variety , or ripeness . on the other hand , the appearance is
   one of the most worrying issues for producers due to its influence on
   quality and consumer preferences . computer vision is the best option to
   satisfy the need of measuring color and heterogeneity in these products .
   previous studies have expressed the heterogeneity with the standard
   deviation or other magnitudes that do not explain accurately the
   distribution of color in cielab color space . graphing the scatterplot of
   the a * b * values belonging to the pixels of the image helps to explain the
   shape of the point cloud , but currently there is not an objective procedure
   to quantify these point clouds . this work has established a method for
   improving the illustration of color measurements by image analysis . the
   proposed algorithm classified the point clouds by clustering methods and
   established the methodology for fitting the resulting clusters into
   ellipsoids . their geometric features described the shape of the clouds in a
   quantitatively manner and they could be useful in multivariate statistical
   techniques for classifying and predicting chemical properties
DE cielab; clustering; color ellipsoids; food color; image analysis
ID food products; image analysis; multivariant analysis; cielab; cielab color
   spaces; clustering; clustering methods; color measurement; consumer
   preferences; multivariate statistical techniques; standard deviation;
   accuracy assessment; cluster analysis; color; computer vision; consumption
   behavior; data acquisition; estimation method; food quality; graphical
   method; heterogeneity; image analysis; statistical analysis; color

---

UT 1825
AR Zhou Y/8, 2022, APPL ECON PERSPECT POLIC, V44, P893, DOI 10.1002/aepp.13214
TI Machine learning for food security: Principles for transparency and
   usability
AU Zhou Y/8; Lentz E; Michelson H; Kim C; Baylis K
TC 28
SO APPL ECON PERSPECT POLIC
PY 2022
AB machine learning ( ml ) holds potential to predict hunger crises before they
   occur . yet , ml models embed crucial choices that affect their utility . we
   develop a prototype model to predict food insecurity across three countries
   in sub saharan africa . readily available data on prices , assets , and
   weather all influence our model predictions . our model obtains 55 % 84 %
   accuracy , substantially outperforming both a logit and ml models using only
   time and location . we highlight key principles for transparency and
   demonstrate how modeling choices between recall and accuracy can be tailored
   to policy maker needs . our work provides a path for future modeling efforts
   in this area . 2021 agricultural and applied economics association .
DE food policy; food security; machine learning; remote sensing; sub-saharan
   africa

---

UT 1826
AR Anly Antony M, 2021, INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS, P1771, DOI
   10.1109/ICACCS51430.2021.9441743
TI A Comparative Study on Predicting Food Quality using Machine Learning
   Techniques
AU Anly Antony M; Kumar RS
TC 13
SO INT CONF ADV COMPUT COMMUN SYST ICACCS
PY 2021
AB machine learning has been established to be a state of the art technology
   with a high number of successful cases in various research areas . these
   techniques have been applied widely on food quality evaluation in recent
   years . this paper reviews the recent developments in the field of
   estimating food quality and food safety using machine learning techniques .
   the primary focus is on the supply of defect free , premium quality products
   to the consumers which is considered to be major factor for the
   competitiveness of manufacturing units . this paper provides a brief
   description of machine learning techniques and then a detailed comparative
   study of different techniques to grade different kinds of foods . we
   investigated many articles to resolve the problems in food domain which
   includes detecting the quality of fruits , vegetables , seafood , meat and
   dairy products . the results of this survey shows that machine learning
   techniques outperforms the conventional methods used in the food domain
DE food grading; food quality; food safety; machine learning
ID dairies; machine learning; comparative studies; conventional methods; food
   quality; machine learning techniques; major factors; manufacturing units;
   premium-quality products; state of the art technology; food safety

---

UT 1827
AR Tušar M, 2011, FOOD QUAL CONTROL ANAL CONSUM CONCERNS, P585
TI Verification of geographical origin of food using artificial neural networks
AU Tušar M; Novič M
TC 0
SO FOOD QUAL CONTROL ANAL CONSUM CONCERNS
PY 2011
AB verification of geographical origin of food is an important task to protect
   customers against fraud . the data obtained by chemical analysis of food
   commodities have to be treated with appropriate chemometrics methods to
   extract information and obtain knowledge on geographical origin of food .
   artificial neural networks can be a useful tool to perform this task
   reliably . in the frame of trace eu project several chemical analyzes were
   performed to find correlations between composition and geographical origin
   of food . because of the large amount of multivariate data an easy
   interpretation of results was not possible . different statistical tools
   were used for data interpretation . we proposed two neural network
   methodologies for food specifications associated with the origin of food .
   counter propagation artificial neural network ( cp ann ) was used to link
   chemical composition of mineral water to the geology of the local water
   source . a dataset consisting of mineral water samples from a known geology
   was modeled . the optimal cp ann model showed good recall ability and
   acceptable accuracy of prediction . the same methodology ( cp ann ) was used
   detect the presence of refined hazelnut oil in refined olive oil from ft mir
   spectra . the results obtained show that the models clearly separate
   different groups and classify correctly the pure olive oil and the hazelnut
   oil . the second methodology was tested on honey samples . honey was sampled
   in various regions in europe and analyzed for the trace elements content .
   the main idea was to link the quantity of trace elements to different
   geological origins : limestone , shale , or magmatic . a special
   architecture of an error back propagation neural network , so called bottle
   neck type of neural network was used to project the data into a 2d plane .
   the data were fed into the 14-nodes input layer and then transferred through
   the 2-nodes hidden layer ( compared to a bottle neck ) to the 14-nodes
   output layer . both input and output layers represented 14 trace elements .
   the two hidden nodes representing the two coordinates of the projection
   plane enable us to map the samples used for training of the bottle neck
   network . with the knowledge about the geological origin of individual
   samples from the training set one can determine the clusters in the
   projection plane and consequently obtain the coordinates of the centroid (
   gravity point ) of a particular cluster . accordingly , the limits of
   content of individual trace elements can be obtained for individual clusters
   connected to geological origin , which may serve for food specifications

---

UT 1828
AR Chin EL, 2019, NUTR, V11, DOI 10.3390/nu11123045
TI Nutrient estimation from 24-hour food recalls using machine learning and
   database mapping: A case study with lactose
AU Chin EL; Simmons G; Bouzid YY; Kan A; Burnett DJ; Tagkopoulos I; Lemay DG
TC 31
SO NUTR
PY 2019
AB the automated self administered 24-hour dietary assessment tool ( asa24 ) is
   a free dietary recall system that outputs fewer nutrients than the nutrition
   data system for research ( ndsr ) . ndsr uses the nutrition coordinating
   center ( ncc ) food and nutrient database , both of which require a license
   . manual lookup of asa24 foods into ndsr is time consuming but currently the
   only way to acquire ncc exclusive nutrients . using lactose as an example ,
   we evaluated machine learning and database matching methods to estimate this
   ncc exclusive nutrient from asa24 reports . asa24-reported foods were
   manually looked up into ndsr to obtain lactose estimates and split into
   training ( n = 378 ) and test ( n = 189 ) datasets . nine machine learning
   models were developed to predict lactose from the nutrients common between
   asa24 and the ncc database . database matching algorithms were developed to
   match ncc foods to an asa24 food using only nutrients ( ' nutrient only ' )
   or the nutrient and food descriptions ( ' nutrient + text ' ) . for both
   methods , the lactose values were compared to the manual curation . among
   machine learning models , the xgb regressor model performed best on held out
   test data ( r2 = 0.33 ) . for the database matching method , nutrient + text
   matching yielded the best lactose estimates ( r2 = 0.76 ) , a vast
   improvement over the status quo of no estimate . these results suggest that
   computational methods can successfully estimate an ncc exclusive nutrient
   for foods reported in asa24
DE database matching; dietary recall; machine learning; nutrient database
ID databases factual; diet; diet records; humans; lactose; machine learning;
   models statistical; nutrition assessment; software; food ingredient;
   lactose; lactose; article; caloric intake; clinical trial; computer model;
   cross-sectional study; data processing; database mapping; decision tree;
   dietary intake; dietary pattern; feedforward neural network; food industry;
   food recall; food safety; gradient boosted tree; human; information
   processing; learning algorithm; machine learning; nutritional assessment;
   nutritional value; observational study; proportional hazards model; quality
   control; training; diet; factual database; medical record; software;
   statistical model

---

UT 1829
AR Sahni V, 2021, J FOOD QUAL, V2021, DOI 10.1155/2021/2140010
TI Modelling Techniques to Improve the Quality of Food Using Artificial
   Intelligence
AU Sahni V; Srivastava S/1; Khan R
TC 105
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2021
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) , or ai / machine vision , is assuming an
   overwhelming part in the realm of food handling and quality affirmation . as
   indicated by mordor intelligence , ai in the food and refreshments market is
   required to enlist a cagr of 28.64 % , during the conjecture time frame
   2018-2023. artificial intelligence makes it workable for pcs to gain as a
   matter of fact , investigate information from the two data sources and
   yields , and perform most human assignments with an improved level of
   accuracy and proficiency . here is a concise gander at how ai is expanding
   sanitation and quality activities . this exploration has along these lines
   tried to furnish policymakers with a way to assess new and existing
   strategies , while likewise offering a reasonable premise through which food
   chains orders can be made stronger through the thought of the executive s
   practices and strategy choices . this survey centers on the ai applications
   according to four mainstays of food security that is food accessibility ,
   food availability , food use , and strength . 2021 varsha sahni et al .
ID food supply; ai applications; food availability; food handling; food
   security; modeling techniques; policy makers; quality activity; strategy
   choices; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1830
AR Elbassuoni S, 2022, IEEE ACCESS, V10, P128523, DOI
   10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3227769
TI DeepNOVA: A Deep Learning NOVA Classifier for Food Images
AU Elbassuoni S; Ghattas H; Ati JE; Shmayssani Z; Katerji S; Zoughbi Y; Semaan
   A; Akl C; Gharbia HB; Sassi S
TC 20
SO IEEE ACCESS
PY 2022
AB assessing the healthiness of food items in images has gained attention in
   both the computer vision and the nutrition fields . however , such task is
   generally a difficult one as food images are captured in various settings
   and thus are usually non homogeneous . moreover , assessing how healthy a
   food item is requires nutritional expertise and knowledge of the
   constituents of the food item and how it is processed . in this manuscript ,
   we propose an end to end deep learning approach that can detect and localize
   various food items in a given food image using a customized object detection
   model . our approach then assesses how healthy each detected food item is by
   classifying it into one or more of the four nova groups ( unprocessed food ,
   processed culinary ingredients , processed food , and ultra processed food )
   . to train our food item detection model , we used two public datasets and a
   custom one we created ourselves and which contains images of food taken
   using wearable cameras . to train the nova food classifier , we use the
   custom dataset we created ourselves and that was manually labeled by expert
   nutritionists . our food item detection model achieved a map of 0.90 and the
   nova food classifier achieved an average f1-score of 0.86 on test data
DE deep learning; food images; nova food classification; nutrition
ID classification ( of information ); deep learning; food products; image
   classification; nutrition; object detection; deep learning; detection
   models; food image; healthiness of foods; non-homogeneous; nova food
   classification; solid modeling; task analysis; training data; cameras

---

UT 1831
AR Sharma A/3, 2022, ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV, P190, DOI
   10.4018/978-1-6684-5141-0.ch011
TI Impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning in the food industry:
   A survey
AU Sharma A/3; Mittal K; Kumar S; Sharma U; Upadhyay P
TC 9
SO ARTIF INTELL APPL AGRIC FOOD QUAL IMPROV
PY 2022
AB in recent years , the food sector or industry has escalated to prominence as
   the most important industry to receive widespread attention . it encompasses
   various industrial activities related to food production , distribution ,
   processing , preparation , preservation , transportation , and packaging .
   machine learning ( ml ) is a subpart of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , and
   it is widely used in the food sector for industrial automation and
   predictive modeling with the world s growing demand and population . ai
   assists in improving package shelf life , menu selection , food cleanliness
   , and safety . because of ai and machine learning , smart agriculture ,
   drones , and robotics in the area of the food sector are becoming the need
   of the modern era . this chapter discusses how ai and machine learning have
   the potential to be used in the food business to save money while
   simultaneously increasing resource efficiency . it highlights the food
   industry s achievements and challenges with specific attention to the role
   of machine learning and artificial intelligence

---

UT 1832
AR Ali SSE, 2020, J INTELL SYST, V29, P1425, DOI 10.1515/jisys-2018-0077
TI An Efficient Quality Inspection of Food Products Using Neural Network
   Classification
AU Ali SSE; Dildar SA
TC 11
SO J INTELL SYST
PY 2020
AB currently , there is a necessity for the expansion of precise , rapid , and
   intentional quality assurance with respect to the character of food and
   horticultural food items , because it is difficult to maintain and organize
   food products in an elevated quality and secure manner for the increasing
   population . in this article , we propose a procedure to resolve
   difficulties and to categorize food as either a broken or quality product .
   therefore , the proposed process encompasses four segments , such as
   preprocessing , segmentation of broken division , feature extraction , and
   classification . at the first stage , the preprocessing method is used to
   remove all unnecessary noises . after that , modified region expansion
   related segmentation is undertaken to segment the broken division of the
   food product . then , feature extraction is used to remove the distinctive
   attributes of each food product to categorize their evaluation . finally ,
   the neural network classification procedure is used to examine the food
   quality . the proposed method is executed in the operational platform of
   matlab , and the consequences are examined by using obtainable methods
DE artificial neural network classifier; backpropagation algorithm; color
   histogram features; gray level co-variance matrix features; histogram
   equalization; modified region growing segmentation
ID backpropagation algorithms; extraction; feature extraction; food products;
   graphic methods; quality assurance; artificial neural network classifiers;
   co-variance; color histogram features; histogram equalizations; region
   growing; neural networks

---

UT 1833
AR Chen N, 2019, CHIN J INTELL SCI TECHNOL, V1, P88, DOI
   10.11959/j.issn.2096-6652.201906
TI Algorithm design for food-picking combining deep learning and biometrics
   recognition; [结合深度学习与生物特征识别在冷链拣选中的算法研究]
AU Chen N; Ruan J; Huang J; Yang W
TC 2
SO CHIN J INTELL SCI TECHNOL
PY 2019
AB irregular shape food picking and processing is a common problem in
   industrial automation , which can be difficult for classical image
   processing techniques , because of the big variations in food shape and
   characteristics , also the high performance requirements in both algorithm
   accuracy and speed . in this paper , a hybrid method based on deep learning
   and feature recognition was proposed , which first roughly localized the
   target point based on deep learning model , and then created a search range
   accordingly . after that , based on biological feature analysis , target
   point could be accurately localized in the search range . based on the data
   of shrimps , a kind of common food , the performance of the proposed method
   was tested . the shrimp images were pre processed and used to train the deep
   learning model for rough localization . then the shrimp body pose was
   normalized for edge extraction after proper rotation and projection . the
   extracted edge curve in search range was analyzed to accurately localize the
   target joint point . the validation results based on a test set including
   1000 samples prove the feasibility of the method the final detection rate of
   the proposed hybrid method is 97 % . the performance meets industrial
   requirements on this case . 2019 beijing xintong media co . , ltd .
DE computer vision; deep learning; feature recognition; food picking

---

UT 1834
AR Kler R, 2022, J FOOD QUAL, V2022, DOI 10.1155/2022/8521236
TI Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence in the Food Industry: A
   Sustainable Approach
AU Kler R; Elkady G; Rane K; Singh A/5; Hossain MS/1; Malhotra D; Ray S; Bhatia
   KK
TC 66
SO J FOOD QUAL
PY 2022
AB the goal of this research was to look into how artificial intelligence ( ai
   ) and machine learning ( ml ) techniques are being used in food industry and
   to come up with future research directions based on that . this study
   investigates the articles available on several scientific platforms that
   link both ai and supply chain from one side and ml and food industry from
   the other side , using a systematic literature review methodology . the
   findings of this research stated that although ai and machine learning
   technologies are yet in their beginning , the prospective for them to
   enhance the performance of the food industry ( fi ) is quite promising .
   various investigators created ai and ml related models that were verified
   and found to be effective in optimizing fi , and so the use of ai and ml in
   fi networks provides competitive advantages for improvement . other
   academics suggest that ai and machine learning are both now adding value ,
   while others believe that they are still underutilized and that their tools
   and methodologies can harness the overall value of the food business .
   according to the findings , ai and machine learning have the potential to
   reduce economic losses , thereby supporting the food industry s efficiency
   and responsiveness . 2022 rajnish kler et al .
ID competition; losses; supply chains; artificial intelligence learning; food
   industries; future research directions; industry networks; machine learning
   techniques; machine learning technology; machine learning; performance;
   prospectives; systematic literature review; machine learning

---

UT 1835
AR Zhou L/2, 2019, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V18, P1793, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.12492
TI Application of Deep Learning in Food: A Review
AU Zhou L/2; Zhang C/3; Liu F/1; Qiu Z; He Y
TC 545
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2019
AB deep learning has been proved to be an advanced technology for big data
   analysis with a large number of successful cases in image processing ,
   speech recognition , object detection , and so on . recently , it has also
   been introduced in food science and engineering . to our knowledge , this
   review is the first in the food domain . in this paper , we provided a brief
   introduction of deep learning and detailedly described the structure of some
   popular architectures of deep neural networks and the approaches for
   training a model . we surveyed dozens of articles that used deep learning as
   the data analysis tool to solve the problems and challenges in food domain ,
   including food recognition , calories estimation , quality detection of
   fruits , vegetables , meat and aquatic products , food supply chain , and
   food contamination . the specific problems , the datasets , the
   preprocessing methods , the networks and frameworks used , the performance
   achieved , and the comparison with other popular solutions of each research
   were investigated . we also analyzed the potential of deep learning to be
   used as an advanced data mining tool in food sensory and consume researches
   . the result of our survey indicates that deep learning outperforms other
   methods such as manual feature extractors , conventional machine learning
   algorithms , and deep learning as a promising tool in food quality and
   safety inspection . the encouraging results in classification and regression
   problems achieved by deep learning will attract more research efforts to
   apply deep learning into the field of food in the future . 2019 institute of
   food technologists
DE computer vision; deep learning; food quality; food recognition; spectroscopy
ID computer vision; data handling; data mining; deep learning; deep neural
   networks; food supply; learning algorithms; machine learning; object
   detection; quality control; spectroscopy; speech recognition; supply chains;
   surveys; advanced technology; conventional machines; data analysis tool;
   food contamination; food quality; food quality and safeties; preprocessing
   method; problems and challenges; algorithm; article; calorie; catering
   service; computer vision; data analysis; data mining; deep learning; deep
   neural network; food contamination; food quality; fruit; spectroscopy;
   vegetable; food safety

---

UT 1836
AR Shen Z, 2020, PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI, V174, P448, DOI
   10.1016/j.procs.2020.06.113
TI Machine Learning Based Approach on Food Recognition and Nutrition Estimation
AU Shen Z; Shehzad A; Chen S/1; Sun H/2; Liu J/3
TC 97
SO PROCEDIA COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB nowadays , standard intake of healthy food is necessary for keeping a
   balanced diet to avoid obesity in the human body . in this paper , we
   present a novel system based on machine learning that automatically performs
   accurate classification of food images and estimates food attributes . this
   paper proposes a deep learning model consisting of a convolutional neural
   network that classifies food into specific categories in the training part
   of the prototype system . the main purpose of the proposed method is to
   improve the accuracy of the pre training model . the paper designs a
   prototype system based on the client server model . the client sends an
   image detection request and processes it on the server side . the prototype
   system is designed with three main software components , including a pre
   trained cnn model training module for classification purposes , a text data
   training module for attribute estimation models , and a server side module .
   we experimented with a variety of food categories , each containing
   thousands of images , and through machine learning training to achieve
   higher classification accuracy
DE convolutional neural network; deep learning; food recognition; machine
   learning; nutrition estimation
ID classification ( of information ); convolution; convolutional neural
   networks; deep learning; text processing; convolutional neural network; deep
   learning; food recognition; healthy foods; learning-based approach; machine
   learning; nutrition estimation; prototype system; server sides; training
   modules; nutrition

---

UT 1837
AR Narendra VG, 2011, INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG, V4, DOI
   10.3965/j.issn.1934-6344.2011.02.0-0
TI Study and comparison of various image edge detection techniques used in
   quality inspection and evaluation of agricultural and food products by
   computer vision
AU Narendra VG; Hareesh KS
TC 32
SO INT J AGRIC BIOL ENG
PY 2011
AB edges characterize boundaries and are therefore a problem of fundamental
   importance in quality assessment of agricultural and food products . since
   edge detection is in the forefront of computer vision system for detection
   of vegetables , fruits and food grains needs to quality inspection and
   evaluation , it is crucial to have a good understanding of edge detection
   algorithms . in this paper the comparative analysis of various image edge
   detection techniques is presented . the software is developed using matlab
   7.6. it has been shown that the canny s edge detection algorithm performs
   better than all operators ( i . e . log , robert , prewitt and sobel ) under
   almost all scenarios .
DE agricultural and food products; computer vision; edge detection; noise

---

UT 1838
AR Xiao J, 2009, INT SYMP KNOWL ACQUIS MODEL KAM, V2, P281, DOI
   10.1109/KAM.2009.296
TI The research on the BP neural network in the food security risk early
   warning applied under supply chain environment
AU Xiao J; Ma Z/1; Zhang D
TC 1
SO INT SYMP KNOWL ACQUIS MODEL KAM
PY 2009
AB this article has conducted the research to food security risk early warning
   under the supplied chain environment by the bp neural network . the paper
   has constructed food security risk early warning model and simulated to it .
   the result has proven bp neural network model serviceability and the
   feasibility
DE bp neural network; food security; risk early warning; supply chain
ID knowledge acquisition; network security; supply chain management; supply
   chains; bp neural network model; bp neural networks; food security; neural
   networks

---

UT 1839
AR Aydilek İB, 2017, INT CONF COMPUT SCI ENG UBMK, P160, DOI
   10.1109/UBMK.2017.8093588
TI Approximate estimation of the nutritions of consumed food by deep learning;
   [Derin Öǧrenme ile Tüketilen Besin İçeriklerinin Yaklaşik Kestirimi]
AU Aydilek İB
TC 3
SO INT CONF COMPUT SCI ENG UBMK
PY 2017
AB deep learning has become a popular sub study in machine learning in the
   recent years due to the conclusions of development in computer hardware
   systems and big data . deep learning is used successfully in image
   classification , speech recognition , natural language processing , and so
   on . controlled intake of nutrition is recommended as a condition for being
   a healthy individual . knowing and monitoring how much food is consumed
   during the day , following the calorie and nutrition of these foods helps to
   control healthy nutrition . in this study , an attempt was made to
   approximate the nutritions of the food at the image level using the food
   pics dataset that contain nutrient images . convolutional neural networks (
   cnn ) , a deep learning approach that has been used successfully in image
   recognition and classification tasks , has been trained with nutrition image
   training data , and a high classification success value has been achieved .
   the arithmetic average nutritional values of the five highest predicted
   nutritional results obtained from the net were taken as the approximate
   nutrient content
DE convolutional neural networks; deep learning; food nutrition
ID big data; classification ( of information ); computer hardware; convolution;
   deep learning; forestry; image classification; image recognition; learning
   algorithms; learning systems; natural language processing systems; neural
   networks; nutrients; speech recognition; approximate estimation;
   classification tasks; convolutional neural network; food nutrition; healthy
   individuals; learning approach; nutrient contents; nutritional value;
   nutrition

---

UT 1840
AR Khan IH, 2021, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA ANAL CAIDA, P281, DOI
   10.1109/CAIDA51941.2021.9425031
TI An Intelligent Approach for Food Recipe Rating Prediction Using Machine
   Learning
AU Khan IH; Ullah Khan MH; Howlader MM
TC 1
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL DATA ANAL CAIDA
PY 2021
AB in recent times , there are many studies and systems which deal with
   restaurant rating or individual food rating but rating a recipe using
   artificial intelligence is rare . this study aims to rate recipes based on
   different attributes using different machine learning algorithms . it
   compares the performance of different classifiers in rating a recipe based
   on different performance criterion . this can be economically beneficial to
   restaurants by helping them improve their recipes and getting more customers
   . it can also be used in a more personal level to improve household recipes
   and for the customers of restaurants to decide which restaurant is better
   for a specific dish based on how good their recipe is
DE classification; machine learning; python; random forests; recipe rating;
   scikitlearn
ID machine learning; predictive analytics; performance criterion; learning
   algorithms

---

UT 1841
AR Arceo-Vilas A, 2020, PEERJ COMPUT SCI, V6, P1, DOI 10.7717/PEERJ-CS.287
TI Identification of predictive factors of the degree of adherence to the
   Mediterranean diet through machine-learning techniques
AU Arceo-Vilas A; Fernandez-Lozano C; Pita S; Pértega-Díaz S; Pazos A
TC 4
SO PEERJ COMPUT SCI
PY 2020
AB food consumption patterns have undergone changes that in recent years have
   resulted in serious health problems . studies based on the evaluation of the
   nutritional status have determined that the adoption of a food pattern based
   primarily on a mediterranean diet ( md ) has a preventive role , as well as
   the ability to mitigate the negative effects of certain pathologies . a
   group of more than 500 adults aged over 40 years from our cohort in
   northwestern spain was surveyed . under our experimental design , 10
   experiments were run with four different machine learning algorithms and the
   predictive factors most relevant to the adherence of a md were identified .
   a feature selection approach was explored and under a null hypothesis test ,
   it was concluded that only 16 measures were of relevance , suggesting the
   strength of this observational study . our findings indicate that the
   following factors have the highest predictive value in terms of the degree
   of adherence to the md : basal metabolic rate , mini nutritional assessment
   questionnaire total score , weight , height , bone density , waist hip ratio
   , smoking habits , age , edi od , circumference of the arm , activity
   metabolism , subscapular skinfold , subscapular circumference in cm ,
   circumference of the waist , circumference of the calf and brachial area .
   2020 arceo vilas et al .
DE feature selection; machine learning; mediterranean diet; nutrition
   disorders; nutritional status; support vector machines
ID design of experiments; food supply; learning algorithms; metabolism;
   nutrition; petroleum reservoir evaluation; predictive analytics; surveys;
   food consumption; machine learning techniques; mediterranean diet; metabolic
   rates; null hypothesis; observational study; predictive factors; predictive
   values; machine learning

---

UT 1842
AR Dora M, 2022, INT J PROD RES, V60, P4621, DOI 10.1080/00207543.2021.1959665
TI Critical success factors influencing artificial intelligence adoption in
   food supply chains
AU Dora M; Kumar A/4; Mangla SK; Pant A; Kamal MM
TC 245
SO INT J PROD RES
PY 2022
AB the adoption of artificial intelligence ( ai ) in the food supply chains (
   fsc ) can address unique challenges of food safety , quality and wastage by
   improving transparency and traceability . however , the technology adoption
   literature in fsc is still the in infancy stage , meaning little is known
   about the critical success factors ( csfs ) that could affect the adoption
   of ai in fsc . therefore , this study makes a pioneering attempt by
   examining the csfs influencing the adoption of ai in the food supply chain (
   fsc ) . a conceptual framework based on toeh (
   technologyorganisationenvironmenthuman ) theory is used to determine the
   csfs influencing ai adoption in the context of indian fsc . the rough swara
   technique was used to rank and prioritize the csfs for ai adoption using the
   relative importance weights . the results of the study indicate that
   technology readiness , security , privacy , customer satisfaction ,
   perceived benefits , demand volatility , regulatory compliance , competitor
   pressure and information sharing among partners are the most significant
   csfs for adopting ai in fsc . the findings of the study would be useful for
   ai technology providers , supply chain specialists and government agencies
   in framing appropriate policies to foster the adoption of ai in fsc the
   sector
DE artificial intelligence; critical success factors; food supply chain; rough
   theory; sustainability; toeh ( technologyorganisationenvironmenthuman )
ID customer satisfaction; food supply; regulatory compliance; supply chains;
   conceptual frameworks; critical success factor; government agencies;
   importance weights; information sharing; perceived benefits; technology
   adoption; technology readiness; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1843
AR Nguyen BT, 2018, ICPRAM - PROC INT CONF PATTERN RECOGNIT APPL METHODS,
   V2018-January, P657, DOI 10.5220/0006749006570664
TI A Deep Learning based Food Recognition System for Lifelog Images
AU Nguyen BT; Dang-Nguyen D-T; Dang TX; Phat T; Gurrin C
TC 16
SO ICPRAM - PROC INT CONF PATTERN RECOGNIT APPL METHODS
PY 2018
AB in this paper , we propose a deep learning based system for food recognition
   from personal life archive images . the system first identifies the eating
   moments based on multi modal information , then tries to focus and enhance
   the food images available in these moments , and finally , exploits
   googlenet as the core of the learning process to recognize the food category
   of the images . preliminary results , experimenting on the food recognition
   module of the proposed system , show that the proposed system achieves 95.97
   % classification accuracy on the food images taken from the personal life
   archive from several lifeloggers , which potentially can be extended and
   applied in broader scenarios and for different types of food categories
DE cnns; food detection; food recognition; hog; lifelogging; sift; surf
ID image enhancement; pattern recognition; classification accuracy; food image;
   learning process; life log; multi-modal information; personal lives;
   recognition systems; deep learning

---

UT 1844
AR Magarelli G, 2022, FOOD QUAL ANAL APPL ANAL METHODS COUPLED ARTIF INTELL,
   P171, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-323-95988-9.00001-1
TI Electrochemical sensors coupled with machine learning for food safety and
   quality inspection
AU Magarelli G; Freire AM; Silva LP
TC 19
SO FOOD QUAL ANAL APPL ANAL METHODS COUPLED ARTIF INTELL
PY 2022
AB the worldwide increasing interest in food safety and food quality subjects
   has driven the continuous emergence of accurate analytical tools development
   for monitoring hazard food contaminants . consequently , the use of rapid
   response biosensing devices , for example , electrochemical ( bio ) sensors
   , has been considered extremely necessary to monitor chemical and biological
   food contaminants with cost effectiveness , short time , and sensitivity .
   this chapter describes the major electrochemical ( bio ) sensor types
   applied to detect and determine pathogens , toxins , allergens , and
   pesticides in food samples in addition to their advantages and disadvantages
   . as innovation in portable electrochemical sensing devices , novel
   bioreceptors associated with emergent nanomaterials are highlighted . the
   theme concerning machine learning coupled with electrochemical ( bio )
   sensors and recent algorithms applied to food safety are presented . aiming
   to address sensing in some common complex food matrix and multiplex sensing
   of contaminants , machine learning is capable of making electrochemical
   sensors more efficient in fast and reliable discrimination of food
   contaminants
DE algorithms; deep learning; electrochemical biosensors; food analysis; food
   contaminants; food quality; food safety; foodborne pathogens; machine
   learning

---

UT 1845
AR Uddin AM, 2021, TENSYMP - IEEE REG 10 SYMP, DOI
   10.1109/TENSYMP52854.2021.9550874
TI Traditional Bengali Food Classification Using Convolutional Neural Network
AU Uddin AM; Al Miraj A; Sen Sarma M; Das A; Gani MM
TC 16
SO TENSYMP - IEEE REG 10 SYMP
PY 2021
AB image classification is turning into a significant and promising perspective
   in the fields of object recognition using computer vision . however ,
   researchers have barely scratched the superficials of food image
   classification till now . to evaluate the dietary aptitudes of people from
   various ethnicities , the classification of their traditional foods makes a
   huge impact . that is what steered us into the classification of seven
   traditional foods in bangladesh . in this regard , our key contribution to
   this aspect is the development of a dataset of traditional bengali food
   image ( tbfi ) including images of seven different classes of traditional
   bengali foods : biriyani , panta ilish , khichuri , fuchka , roshogolla ,
   dim vuna kala vuna . for this , a scratch model incorporating convolutional
   neural network ( cnn ) has been developed , rectifying to another vital
   contribution . as conventional neural network does not perform well in case
   of image datasets , the cnn approach has been followed in view of its high
   accuracy , computational power with efficiency and automatic recognition of
   important features without any human oversight . moreover , transfer
   learning approach with fine tuned vgg16 has also been used for tbfi
   classification . the proposed model in this paper has generated a culminated
   outcome upon our tbfi dataset with an average accuracy of 98 % in
   classifying the traditional bengali food images
DE convolutional neural network; fine tuning; image classification; traditional
   bengali foods; transfer learning; vgg16
ID classification ( of information ); computational efficiency; convolution;
   image classification; object recognition; transfer learning; bengalis;
   convolutional neural network; fine tuning; food image; image datasets;
   images classification; traditional bengali food; traditional food; transfer
   learning; vgg16; convolutional neural networks

---

UT 1846
AR Calvo H, 2016, NEUROCOMPUTING, V175, P911, DOI 10.1016/j.neucom.2015.06.095
TI A practical framework for automatic food products classification using
   computer vision and inductive characterization
AU Calvo H; Moreno-Armendáriz MA; Godoy-Calderón S
TC 14
SO NEUROCOMPUTING
PY 2016
AB with the increasingly international regulatory demands for food products
   import and export , as well as with the increased awareness and
   sophistication of consumers , the food industry needs accurate , fast and
   efficient quality inspection means . each producer seeks to ensure that
   their products satisfy all consumer [ you+05f3 ] s expectations and that the
   appropriate quality level of each product is offered and sold to each
   different socio economic consumer group . this paper presents a framework
   that uses computer vision and inductive characterization with a reduced set
   of features , along with three cases where this framework has been
   successfully applied to improve the quality inspection process . three
   different basic food products are studied : hass avocado , manila mango and
   corn tortillas . these products are very important in economical terms for
   the sheer volume of their production and marketing . each product has
   particular characteristics that involve different ways of handling the
   quality inspection process , but this framework allows addressing common key
   points that allow automatizing this process . experimental results of each
   case shows that the proposed technique is competitive with existing systems
   and has significantly lower costs in terms of the number of features
   required for classification
DE computer vision; feature selection; food products; framework; inductive
   characterization
ID characterization; feature extraction; food products; fruits; inspection;
   corn tortillas; existing systems; food industries; framework; products
   imports; quality inspection; quality levels; socio-economics; article;
   automation; avocado; classification; computer system; conceptual framework;
   experimental study; food analysis; food control; food handling; food
   industry; food quality; maize; mango; priority journal; quality control
   procedures; socio-economics; computer vision

---

UT 1847
AR Yin KM, 1999, LAB ROB AUTOM, V11, P151, DOI
   10.1002/(SICI)1098-2728(1999)11:3<151::AID-LRA5>3.0.CO;2-Z
TI Protein content estimation in food products using neural networks
AU Yin KM
TC 0
SO LAB ROB AUTOM
PY 1999
AB in the food production industry , estimation of protein content in various
   forms of products is a continual process where the estimated values are
   required for documentation as well as testing purposes . chromatographs and
   infrared spectrometers are used to physically obtain the protein spectra
   from the food samples . the spectra provides some measures of protein
   contents of the samples . the use of faster on line estimation programs with
   sufficient accuracy is desirable . a recent study indicates that the use of
   neural networks for the task of protein estimation is highly feasible . we
   followed upon the idea and modeled a few type of neural networks . these
   network types include back propagation networks ( bpns ) , genetic
   reinforcement networks ( grns ) , and radial basis function networks (
   crbfns ) . we found that the tested models are usable for the estimation
   purposes . in this article , we present our modeling and test results .
ID chromatography; computer software; estimation; food products; industrial
   applications; infrared spectrometers; mathematical models; online systems;
   proteins; backpropagation networks; food production industry; genetic
   reinforcement networks; online estimation program; protein content
   estimation; radial basis function networks; neural networks

---

UT 1848
AR Brosnan T, 2002, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V36, P193, DOI
   10.1016/S0168-1699(02)00101-1
TI Inspection and grading of agricultural and food products by computer vision
   systems - A review
AU Brosnan T; Sun D-W/1
TC 371
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2002
AB computer vision is a rapid , economic , consistent and objective inspection
   technique , which has expanded into many diverse industries . its speed and
   accuracy satisfy ever increasing production and quality requirements , hence
   aiding in the development of totally automated processes . this non
   destructive method of inspection has found applications in the agricultural
   and food industry , including the inspection and grading of fruit and
   vegetable . it has also been used successfully in the analysis of grain
   characteristics and in the evaluation of foods such as meats , cheese and
   pizza . this paper reviews the progress of computer vision in the
   agricultural and food industry , then identifies areas for further research
   and wider application the technique . 2002 elsevier science b.v
DE computer vision; food; fruit; grain; image analysis and processing;
   vegetables
ID computer vision; crops; food products; fruits; computer vision; objective
   inspection technique; agricultural engineering

---

UT 1849
AR Brosnan T, 2004, J FOOD ENG, V61, P3, DOI 10.1016/S0260-8774(03)00183-3
TI Improving quality inspection of food products by computer vision - A review
AU Brosnan T; Sun D-W/1
TC 900
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2004
AB with increased expectations for food products of high quality and safety
   standards , the need for accurate , fast and objective quality determination
   of these characteristics in food products continues to grow . computer
   vision provides one alternative for an automated , non destructive and cost
   effective technique to accomplish these requirements . this inspection
   approach based on image analysis and processing has found a variety of
   different applications in the food industry . considerable research has
   highlighted its potential for the inspection and grading of fruits and
   vegetables . computer vision has been successfully adopted for the quality
   analysis of meat and fish , pizza , cheese , and bread . likewise grain
   quality and characteristics have been examined by this technique . this
   paper presents the significant elements of a computer vision system and
   emphasizes the important aspects of the image processing technique coupled
   with a review of the most recent developments throughout the food industry
DE computer vision; fruit; grain; image analysis; image processing; machine
   vision; meats; online inspection; vegetables
ID computer vision; cost effectiveness; nondestructive examination; quality
   control; quality inspection; food products

---

UT 1850
AR Tripathy PP, 2009, INT J THERM SCI, V48, P1452, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijthermalsci.2008.11.014
TI Neural network approach for food temperature prediction during solar drying
AU Tripathy PP; Kumar S/3
TC 98
SO INT J THERM SCI
PY 2009
AB in the present study , the application of artificial neural network ( ann )
   for prediction of temperature variation of food product during solar drying
   is investigated . the important climatic variables namely , solar radiation
   intensity and ambient air temperature are considered as the input parameters
   for ann modeling . experimental data on potato cylinders and slices obtained
   with mixed mode solar dryer for 9 typical days of different months of the
   year were used for training and testing the neural network . a methodology
   is proposed for development of optimal neural network . results of analysis
   reveal that the network with 4 neurons and logsig transfer function and
   trainrp back propagation algorithm is the most appropriate approach for both
   potato cylinders and slices based on minimum measures of error . in order to
   test the worthiness of ann model for prediction of food temperature
   variation , the analytical heat diffusion model with appropriate boundary
   conditions and statistical model are also proposed . based on error analysis
   results , the prediction capability of ann model is found to be the best of
   all the prediction models investigated , irrespective of food sample
   geometry . 2008 .
DE artificial neural network; food temperature prediction; heat diffusion
   model; laplace transform; solar drying; statistical model
ID backpropagation; backpropagation algorithms; cylinders ( shapes );
   dewatering; diffusion; drying; error analysis; laplace transforms; solar
   dryers; sun; artificial neural network; food temperature prediction; heat
   diffusion model; solar drying; statistical model; neural networks

---

UT 1851
AR Du C-J, 2006, J FOOD ENG, V72, P39, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2004.11.017
TI Learning techniques used in computer vision for food quality evaluation: A
   review
AU Du C-J; Sun D-W/1
TC 343
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2006
AB learning techniques have been applied increasingly for food quality
   evaluation using computer vision in recent years . this paper reviews recent
   advances in learning techniques for food quality evaluation using computer
   vision , which include artificial neural network , statistical learning ,
   fuzzy logic , genetic algorithm , and decision tree . artificial neural
   network ( ann ) and statistical learning ( sl ) remain the primary learning
   methods in the field of computer vision for food quality evaluation . among
   the applications of learning algorithms in computer vision for food quality
   evaluation , most of them are for classification and prediction , however ,
   there are also some for image segmentation and feature selection . in this
   paper , the promise of learning techniques for food quality evaluation using
   computer vision is demonstrated , and some issues which need to be resolved
   or investigated further to expedite the application of learning algorithms
   are also discussed
DE ann; classification; computer vision; decision tree; feature selection;
   food; fuzzy logic; genetic algorithm; image segmentation; learning;
   prediction; quality evaluation; sl
ID classification ( of information ); computer vision; fuzzy sets; genetic
   algorithms; image segmentation; learning systems; neural networks;
   statistical methods; ann; classification; decision tree; feature selection;
   food; learning; prediction; quality evaluation; sl; food products

---

UT 1852
AR Singh PP, 1997, PAP ASAE, V3
TI Pressure drop estimation in tube flow of non-Newtonian fluid foods by neural
   networks
AU Singh PP; Jindal VK/1
TC 4
SO PAP ASAE
PY 1997
AB a tube flow viscometer complete with data acquisition system was designed
   and developed for continuous measurement of pressure drop and flow velocity
   . experiments were carried out with five fluids in laminar flow region using
   stainless steel tubes of different diameters . the flow parameters
   determined with the tube viscometer after slip correction and a brookfield
   viscometer were correlated for estimating the pressure drop indirectly .
   finally , it was shown that neural networks could accurately predict the
   pressure drop in tube flow without making any correction for wall slip from
   the input data on tube diameter , fluid density , mass flow rate , and flow
   parameters determined with a brookfield viscometer .
ID correlation methods; data acquisition; flow measurement; laminar flow;
   neural networks; non newtonian flow; pipe flow; pressure drop; pressure
   measurement; stainless steel; velocity measurement; viscometers; tube flow
   viscometers; food products

---

UT 1853
AR Nakai S, 2003, INT J FOOD PROP, V6, P25, DOI 10.1081/JFP-120016622
TI A computer-aided strategy for structure-function relation study of food
   proteins using unsupervised data mining
AU Nakai S; Ogawa M; Nakamura S; Dou J; Funane K
TC 10
SO INT J FOOD PROP
PY 2003
AB data mining ( dm ) based on bayesian neural networks ( bnn ) is popular for
   exploring consistent patterns and / or systematic relationships of variables
   in chemometrics . a combination of the unsupervised principal component
   similarity ( pcs ) analysis with the random centroid optimization for site
   directed mutagenesis of amino acid sequences ( rcg ) is proposed to
   correlate the sequence data with functions of proteins . principal component
   similarity based on similarity was superior to classifications based on
   dissimilarity represented by multidimensional distances . important factors
   ( independent variables ) to be used in the optimization could be selected
   through pcs processing of data to improve reliability of function prediction
   . dimensionality reduction using pcs by eliminating minor factors and / or
   trend line drawing on response surface maps in rcg to determine the
   direction of search shift toward the global optimum are useful for
   approximating the underlying response surfaces . application of the sequence
   pcs was useful in elucidating usually unknown mechanisms of underlying
   functions of a protein based on its amino acid sequence . the functions in
   question may be predicted using a modern version of neural networks .
DE data mining; neural networks; principal component similarity; random-
   centroid optimization; site-directed mutagenesis; unsupervised learning
ID amino acids; data mining; neural networks; optimization; principal component
   analysis; proteins; random-centroid optimization ( rco ); food products

---

UT 1854
AR Aguilera JM, 2005, FOOD AUST, V57, P79
TI Computer vision and food quality
AU Aguilera JM; Briones V
TC 17
SO FOOD AUST
PY 2005
AB various applications and benefits of using computer vision systems ( cvs )
   in the food industry , mainly for examining food quality are discussed . cvs
   use image acquisition devices , computers and image processing software to
   simulate the role of eyes and brain . applications of cvs eliminate the
   subjectivity of visual inspections , adding accuracy and consistency . cvs
   allow fast identification and measurement of selected objects ,
   classification into categories and color analysis of food surfaces with high
   versatility .
ID charge coupled devices; color; computational geometry; computer hardware;
   computer simulation; computer software; food products; image analysis; image
   quality; image retrieval; microscopic examination; object recognition;
   personal computers; quality control; computer vision systems ( cvs ); food
   quality; image acquisition; immunochemical methods; computer vision

---

UT 1855
AR Melin P, 2001, INT J SMART ENG SYST DES, V3, P65
TI An adaptive model-based smart controller of bioreactors in the food industry
   combining neural networks, fuzzy logic, and fractal theory
AU Melin P; Castillo O
TC 0
SO INT J SMART ENG SYST DES
PY 2001
AB we describe in this paper a new method for adaptive model based smart
   control of nonlinear dynamic plants in the food industry using neural
   networks , fuzzy logic and fractal theory . the new method combines soft
   computing ( sc ) techniques with the concept of the fractal dimension for
   the domain of non linear dynamic plant control . the new method for adaptive
   model based control has been implemented as a computer program to show that
   our neuro fuzzy fractal approach is a good alternative for controlling non
   linear dynamic plants . we illustrate in this paper our new methodology with
   the case of controlling biochemical reactors in the food industry . for this
   case , we use mathematical models for the simulation of bacteria growth for
   several types of food . the goal of constructing these models is to capture
   the dynamics of bacteria population in food , so as to have a way of
   controlling this dynamics for industrial manufacturing purposes .
DE adaptive control; biochemical reactors; fractal theory; fuzzy logic; neural
   networks
ID adaptive control systems; bacteria; computer software; dynamics; fractals;
   fuzzy sets; neural networks; smart controllers; bioreactors

---

UT 1856
AR Hayashi Y, 2009, JOPERRESSOC, V60, P1221, DOI 10.1057/palgrave.jors.2602646
TI Predicting consumer preference for fast-food franchises: A data mining
   approach
AU Hayashi Y; Hsieh M-H; Setiono R
TC 10
SO JOPERRESSOC
PY 2009
AB the objectives of the study reported in this paper are : ( 1 ) to evaluate
   the adequacy of two data mining techniques , decision tree and neural
   network in analyzing consumer preference for a fast food franchise and ( 2 )
   to examine the sufficiency of the criteria selected in understanding this
   preference . we build decision tree and neural network models to fit data
   samples collected from 800 respondents in taiwan to understand the factors
   that determine their brand preference . classification rules are generated
   from these models to differentiate between consumers who prefer the brand
   and those who do not . the generated rules show that while both decision
   tree and neural network models can achieve predictive accuracy of more than
   80 % on the training data samples and more that 70 % on the cross validation
   data samples , the neural network models compare very favorably to a
   decision tree model in rule complexity and the numbers of relevant input
   attributes . 2009 operational research society ltd .
DE consumer brand preference; data mining; decision tree; neural network
ID decision trees; neural networks; trees ( mathematics ); classification
   rules; consumer brand preference; consumer preferences; cross validation;
   decision tree modeling; neural network model; predictive accuracy; rule
   complexity; data mining

---

UT 1857
AR Takeda F, 2003, IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL MEAS SYST APPLI PROC,
   V2003-January, P56, DOI 10.1109/CIMSA.2003.1227202
TI Dish extraction method with neural network for food intake measuring system
   on medical use
AU Takeda F; Kumada K; Takara M
TC 18
SO IEEE INT CONF COMPUT INTELL MEAS SYST APPLI PROC
PY 2003
AB we have been engaging development of a food intake measuring system . this
   system measures amounts of food intake for each dish on the tray . therefore
   , this system needs to extract dish image from a tray image . in this paper
   , we propose a dish extraction method by neural network ( nn ) . we expect
   that the proposed method can extract dish image efficiently and exactly even
   if dishes are over wrapped each other . while , food sometimes causes miss
   recognition of the correct position of the extracted dish image , we newly
   add food rejection algorithm to the dish extraction method . finally , we
   show the effectiveness and usability of the improved proposed method with
   computer simulation using real data
DE biomedical engineering; biomedical imaging; computer simulation; data
   mining; displays; image databases; information systems; neural networks;
   shape; systems engineering and theory
ID artificial intelligence; bioinformatics; biomedical engineering; computation
   theory; computer simulation; data mining; display devices; extraction;
   information systems; medical imaging; neural networks; biomedical imaging;
   extraction method; image database; measuring systems; neural network ( nn );
   rejection algorithm; shape; systems engineering and theories; image
   processing

---

UT 1858
AR Huang Y/2, 1998, TRANS SOC AGRIC ENG, V41, P1519
TI Internal model control for a continuous, snack food frying process using
   neural networks
AU Huang Y/2; Whittaker AD; Lacey RE
TC 10
SO TRANS SOC AGRIC ENG
PY 1998
AB based on a developed neural network one step ahead prediction model with two
   inputs and two outputs , an internal model control ( imc ) loop is
   established for process control of a continuous , snack food frying process
   . in this multivariable control loop , each control action is computed
   iteratively by a modified newton s and gradient descent methods to inverse
   the process prediction model equation at each time instant . using this
   control loop , the time lags between the process inputs and outputs are
   compensated . results of controller simulation of the continuous , snack
   food frying process are presented .
DE internal model control ( imc ); neural network process modeling; one-step-
   ahead prediction
ID computer simulation; food products; mathematical models; multivariable
   control systems; neural networks; numerical methods; process control;
   quality control; food frying; internal model control; one-step-ahead
   prediction; snack food; food processing

---

UT 1859
AR Sun D-W/1, 2008, COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD QUAL EVAL, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-373642-0.X5001-7
TI Computer Vision Technology for Food Quality Evaluation
AU Sun D-W/1
TC 152
SO COMPUT VIS TECHNOL FOOD QUAL EVAL
PY 2008
AB the first book in this rapidly expanding area , computer vision technology
   for food quality evaluation thoroughly discusses the latest advances in
   image processing and analysis . computer vision has attracted much research
   and development attention in recent years and , as a result , significant
   scientific and technological advances have been made in quality inspection ,
   classification and evaluation of a wide range of food and agricultural
   products . this unique work provides engineers and technologists working in
   research , development , and operations in the food industry with critical ,
   comprehensive and readily accessible information on the art and science of
   computer vision technology . undergraduate and postgraduate students and
   researchers in universities and research institutions will also find this an
   essential reference source . discusses novel technology for recognizing
   objects and extracting quantitative information from digital images in order
   to provide objective , rapid , non contact and non destructive quality
   evaluation . international authors with both academic and professional
   credentials address in detail one aspect of the relevant technology per
   chapter making this ideal for textbook use divided into three parts , it
   begins with an outline of the fundamentals of the technology , followed by
   full coverage of the application in the most researched areas of meats and
   other foods , fruits , vegetables and grains

---

UT 1860
AR Suh D-W, 2002, CHEM ENG COMMUN, V189, P1437, DOI 10.1080/00986440214056
TI Artificial intelligence control of food freezer using rotating disk air
   distributor for uniform freezing
AU Suh D-W; Chun J-K
TC 0
SO CHEM ENG COMMUN
PY 2002
AB a rotating disk air distribution ( rdad ) system consisting of a rotating
   disk with an air supply hole was fabricated to solve the nonuniform freezing
   problem of a freezer that supplies air through a duct at a fixed location .
   the rdad system was installed in a freezer to supply freezing air in various
   directions by controlling the position of the air supply hole . an equation
   estimating air velocity in the freezer was developed based on heat balance
   between a brass block thermocouple ( bbt ) probe and ambient air stream .
   the equation was applied to the analysis of airflow patterns developed
   through the rdad and the fixed duct system . for control of the rdad system
   , a fuzzy matrix was constructed with the measured nodal temperature at 3d
   locations in the freezer and used to search for the optimum direction of air
   supply . uniform cooling was accomplished with the rdad system using fuzzy
   and expert algorithms leading to temperature deviation =0.666 , compared
   with 0.289 of the fixed air supply system . cooling rate of model food ( bbt
   ) was 1.75 times faster than that of the fixed system .
DE airflow distribution; artificial intelligence; expert system; freezer;
   fuzzy; uniform freezing
ID freezing; air; food products; freezing; rotating disks; thermocouples;
   airflow patterns; artificial intelligence

---

UT 1861
AR Gunasekaran Sundaram, 1994, FOOD TECHNOL, V48, P151
TI Using computer vision for food quality evaluation
AU Gunasekaran Sundaram; Ding Kexiang
TC 55
SO FOOD TECHNOL
PY 1994
AB computer vision is the latest innovative application in quality evaluation
   in the food industry . this now sensory method is based on artificial
   intelligence and digital image processing . computer vision is deemed as an
   efficient substitute for human vision that renders quality inspection .
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; digital signal processing; food
   processing; image processing; inspection; knowledge based systems; neural
   networks; pattern recognition; quality assurance; quality control; digital
   image processing; human vision; computer vision

---

UT 1862
AR Stanford V, 2003, IEEE PERVASIVE COMPUT, V2, P9, DOI
   10.1109/MPRV.2003.1186719
TI Pervasive computing puts food on the table
AU Stanford V
TC 93
SO IEEE PERVASIVE COMPUT
PY 2003
AB the replacement of paper order pads in the restaurants with a wireless
   network , palm top pda , touch screen terminals , and back office servers is
   discussed . this pervasive system simplifies the job of the servers . the
   system totals the checks , eliminating errors in arithmatic . but there are
   some key requirements for the order system to offer improvements in reduced
   writing for the servers afforded by the abbreviation and completion feature
   . improved back office functions are also offered by the system for
   inventory control and process monitoring .
ID cost effectiveness; customer satisfaction; information technology;
   intellectual property; inventory control; mobile computing; process control;
   real time systems; user interfaces; inventory management systems; pervasive
   computing; process monitoring; personal digital assistants

---

UT 1863
AR Castillo O, 1995, APPLIC ARTIF INTELL ENG, P109
TI Automated quality control in the food industry combining artificial
   intelligence techniques with fractal theory
AU Castillo O; Melin P
TC 3
SO APPLIC ARTIF INTELL ENG
PY 1995
AB traditional quality control in the food industry consists mainly of
   microbiological and chemical techniques performed on samples of food
   extracted from production lines . traditionally , the goal of the quality
   control department in the food industry has been the application of the
   minimal number of microbiological and chemical techniques to the samples of
   food , so as to have a decision on the quality of the production as quickly
   as possible . in this paper we are introducing a new computerized method to
   perform an automatic evaluation of the quality of the production , based on
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) techniques and fractal theory . the main idea
   in this paper is that , combining the use of the fractal dimension as a
   measure of classification of microorganisms and chemicals , and the use of
   ai to simulate the expert evaluation / decision process of the quality of
   the production , we obtain a computer program that is able to perform
   automated quality control in the food industry . we can conclude then , that
   the use of ai and fractal theory increases quality control efficiency ( in
   accuracy and in time ) because it eliminates the need of the application of
   a long sequence of microbiological and chemical techniques .
ID artificial intelligence; chemicals; computer simulation; computer software;
   factory automation; food processing; fractals; microorganisms; automated
   quality control; food industry; quality control

---

UT 1864
AR Huang Y/3, 2007, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V47, P113, DOI
   10.1080/10408390600626453
TI Applications of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) in food science
AU Huang Y/3; Kangas LJ; Rasco BA
TC 204
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2007
AB artificial neural networks ( anns ) have been applied in almost every aspect
   of food science over the past two decades , although most applications are
   in the development stage . anns are useful tools for food safety and quality
   analyzes , which include modeling of microbial growth and from this
   predicting food safety , interpreting spectroscopic data , and predicting
   physical , chemical , functional and sensory properties of various food
   products during processing and distribution . anns hold a great deal of
   promise for modeling complex tasks in process control and simulation and in
   applications of machine perception including machine vision and electronic
   nose for food safety and quality control . this review discusses the basic
   theory of the ann technology and its applications in food science ,
   providing food scientists and the research community an overview of the
   current research and future trend of the applications of ann technology in
   the field . copyright taylor and francis group , llc .
DE electronic nose; machine perception; machine vision; microbiology; process
   control; spectroscopy
ID algorithms; artificial intelligence; fermentation; food microbiology; food
   technology; humans; neural networks ( computer ); quality control; signal
   processing computer-assisted; spectrum analysis; algorithm; article;
   artificial intelligence; artificial neural network; fermentation; food
   control; food handling; human; quality control; signal processing;
   spectroscopy

---

UT 1865
AR Kinoshita T, 2005, J MED INVEST, V52, P240, DOI 10.2152/jmi.52.240
TI Approach to novel functional foods for stress control 1. Toward structure-
   activity relationship and data mining of food compounds by chemoinformatics
AU Kinoshita T; Lepp Z; Chuman H
TC 2
SO J MED INVEST
PY 2005
AB over the past several decades , thousands of natural organic compounds have
   been isolated from foods , and the information about their structures and
   biological activities has been accumulated . despite the long research
   history of food products and their potential great promise as a medicine and
   functional food , the systematic research and development have not been
   carried out extensively . for understanding of the comprehensive structure
   activity relationship , we have developed the database system of flavonoids
   , which are frequently found in vegetables and fruits . we also plan to
   execute a virtual screening of flavonoids with antidepressant activity by
   using the database and an advanced chemoinformatic tool . in this section ,
   we will briefly describe ( 1 ) flavonoid database and ( 2 ) virtual
   screening of antidepressant compounds .
DE antidepressant; flavonoid database; structure-activity relationship; support
   vector machine
ID antidepressive agents; databases factual; flavonoids; food; models chemical;
   stress; structure-activity relationship; antidepressant agent; flavonoid;
   biological activity; conference paper; data base; fruit; functional food;
   statistical analysis; stress; structure-activity relation; vegetable

---

UT 1866
AR Kseibat DS, 2004, TRANS INST MEAS CONTROL, V26, P55, DOI
   10.1191/0142331204tm0104oa
TI Predicting safety and quality of thermally processed canned foods using a
   neural network
AU Kseibat DS; Mittal GS/1; Basir OA
TC 12
SO TRANS INST MEAS CONTROL
PY 2004
AB an artificial neural network ( ann ) for reliably predicting the process
   temperature ( te ) and process time ( t ) for minimum quality degradation (
   foq ) during thermal processing of canned foods was developed . five inputs
   ( can size , initial temperature , thermal diffusivity , sensitivity
   indicator of micro organism and sensitivity indicator of quality ) were used
   to predict the process variables te , t , and foq . a measure of dependency
   and statistical tests were used to reduce the number of inputs with little
   degradation of ann performance . the feedforward ann showed satisfactory
   prediction error . the mean relative error ( mre ) was 0.2 % in predicting
   te , 3.9 % in predicting t , and 1.5 % in predicting foq . the ann showed
   high mre in predicting the outputs when tested with the radial basis
   function ( rbf ) network . 2004 , sage publications
DE artificial neural network; food canning; food quality; food safety;
   pasteurization; sterilization; thermal processing
ID canning; food preservation; quality control; radial basis function networks;
   safety factor; temperature measurement; food quality; food safety; thermally
   processed canned foods; measurement theory

---

UT 1867
AR Kupongsak S, 2006, FUZZY SETS SYST, V157, P1169, DOI
   10.1016/j.fss.2005.12.015
TI Application of fuzzy set and neural network techniques in determining food
   process control set points
AU Kupongsak S; Tan J
TC 30
SO FUZZY SETS SYST
PY 2006
AB fuzzy set and neural network techniques were used to determine food process
   control set points for producing products of certain desirable sensory
   quality . fuzzy sets were employed to interpret sensory responses while
   neural networks were applied to model the relationships between process and
   sensory variables . rice cake production was used as a model process .
   product sensory attributes were evaluated by a trained panel . multi judge
   responses were formulated as fuzzy membership vectors , which in turn were
   formed into fuzzy membership matrices of multiple sensory attributes .
   neural networks were used to determine the sensory attribute controllability
   and the process control set points for achieving a given target of sensory
   quality . new products were made by using the process set points determined
   , and the product sensory attributes matched the desired sensory target
   values by less than 9 % error . the results demonstrate the great potential
   of the fuzzy set concept and neural network techniques in sensory quality
   based food process control with sensory evaluations quantified in a
   naturally fuzzy manner . 2006 elsevier b.v
DE food process control; fuzzy sets; neural networks; sensory evaluation; set
   point determination
ID controllability; food processing; fuzzy control; neural networks; quality
   control; sensor data fusion; food process control; sensory attributes;
   sensory evaluation; set point determination; fuzzy sets

---

UT 1868
AR Gunasekaran Sundaram, 1996, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V7, P245, DOI
   10.1016/0924-2244(96)10028-5
TI Computer vision technology for food quality assurance
AU Gunasekaran Sundaram
TC 198
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 1996
AB computer vision systems are being used increasingly in the food industry for
   quality assurance purposes . essentially , such systems replace human
   inspectors for the evaluation of a variety of quality attributes of raw and
   prepared foods . over the past few years , the explosive growth in both
   computer hardware and software has led to many significant advances in
   computer vision technology . computer vision applications range from routine
   inspection to complex vision guided robotic controls . computer vision
   technology provides a high level of flexibility and repeatability at
   relatively low cost . it also permits fairly high plant throughput without
   compromising accuracy . currently , computer vision systems are being
   developed as an integral part of food processing plants for on line , real
   time quality evaluation and quality control .

---

UT 1869
AR Eerikäinen T, 1993, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V4, P237, DOI
   10.1016/0924-2244(93)90137-Y
TI Fuzzy logic and neural network applications in food science and technology
AU Eerikäinen T; Linko P; Linko S; Siimes T; Zhu Y-H
TC 66
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 1993
AB intelligent computer programs capable of state estimation and prediction
   into the future would be helpful as software sensors when dealing with
   bioprocesses characterized by uncertainties and complexity . fuzzy logic has
   been shown to be a valuable tool in dealing with vague and incomplete
   information , and in incorporating human expert knowledge into process
   models . neural network programs capable of learning from past experience
   are useful when no exact mathematical information on the process under
   investigation is available . this paper discusses the state of the art of
   such novel tools of artificial intelligence , with examples demonstrating
   their potential in food related applications . 1993 .

---

UT 1870
AR Melin Patricia, 1997, SYST ANAL MODEL SIMUL, V29, P189
TI Automated mathematical modelling and simulation for bacteria growth control
   in the food industry using artificial intelligence and Fractal Theory
AU Melin Patricia; Castillo Oscar
TC 7
SO SYST ANAL MODEL SIMUL
PY 1997
AB we describe in this paper a computer program for automated mathematical
   modeling and simulation ( amms ) for bacteria growth control in the food
   industry using artificial intelligence ( ai ) techniques . this computer
   program is an implementation of a new method for amms using expert systems
   technology and fractal theory developed by the authors . we show in this
   paper mathematical models expressed as differential equations , for the
   simulation of bacteria growth for several types of food . the goal of
   constructing this models is to capture the dynamics of bacteria population
   in food , so as to have a way of controlling this dynamics for industrial
   purposes . controlling the growth of bacteria is very important in
   industrial microbiology in obtaining the food products with the desired
   chemical and microbiological properties . the goal of controlling the growth
   of bacteria population can be achieved , by computer simulations and
   application of the theory of dynamical systems . we also use the fractal
   dimension as a tool for the identification of bacteria by measuring the
   geometrical complexity of the colonies . this method of identification is
   based on the experimental fact that different types of bacteria have
   colonies of different geometrical form and complexity .
ID artificial intelligence; bacteriology; computational complexity;
   computational geometry; computer simulation; computer software; differential
   equations; expert systems; fractals; mathematical models; process control;
   bacteria growth control; food processing

---

UT 1871
AR Mittal GS/1, 2000, FOOD RES INT, V33, P557, DOI
   10.1016/S0963-9969(00)00091-0
TI Prediction of freezing time for food products using a neural network
AU Mittal GS/1; Zhang J/7
TC 35
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2000
AB an artificial neural network ( ann ) was developed to predict the freezing
   time of food products of any shape . the pham model was used to generate
   freezing time data and to train ann based on wardnets . the product
   thickness ( a ) , width ( b ) , length ( c ) , convective heat transfer
   coefficient ( h ( c ) ) , thermal conductivity of frozen product ( k ) ,
   product density ( ) , specific heat of unfrozen product ( c ( pu ) ) ,
   moisture content of the product ( m ) , initial product temperature ( ti ) ,
   and ambient temperature ( t ( ) ) were taken as input variables of the ann
   to predict freezing time . the effects of the number of hidden layer nodes ,
   learning rate , momentum on prediction accuracy were analyzed . the
   performance of the ann was checked using experimental data . predicted
   freezing time using the ann was proved a simple , convenient and accurate
   method . selection of hidden nodes , learning rate and momentum were
   important to ann predictions . ( c ) 2000 elsevier science ltd .
DE ann; food freezing; freezing time
ID artificial neural network; chemical and physical properties; food product;
   freezing; model; process optimization

---

UT 1872
AR Gonçalves EC, 2005, CHEM ENG PROCESS PROCESS INTENSIF, V44, P1269, DOI
   10.1016/j.cep.2005.04.001
TI Modeling sterilization process of canned foods using artificial neural
   networks
AU Gonçalves EC; Minim LA; Coimbra JSR; Minim VPR
TC 42
SO CHEM ENG PROCESS PROCESS INTENSIF
PY 2005
AB in order to model the thermal processing of canned foods , the neural
   networks technique was applied , whose aim was to determine the cold point
   temperature based on the initial process conditions and the retort s
   temperature . the network had the following input variables : the processing
   time , the retort s and cold point s temperature at the current time ti ,
   and at previous times ti 1 and ti 2 . the output variable was the
   temperature of the cold point at the time ti+1 . for training the network ,
   a time / temperature data set was obtained through the product processing in
   a vertical retort . the back propagation through time and jordan networks
   were trained and its generalization performance were compared . in this work
   , a better generalization capacity were obtained using the back propagation
   through time network , which presented an average relative error of 2.2 %
   between the calculated and predicted f values . the architecture of the
   selected network was the 5-8-9-1 . 2005 elsevier b.v
DE artificial neural networks; canned food; sterilization
ID food processing; backpropagation; error analysis; neural networks;
   sterilization ( cleaning ); thermal effects; cold point; generalization
   capacity; sterilization process; vertical retort; food products

---

UT 1873
AR Torrecilla JS, 2006, CHISA - INT CONGR CHEM PROCESS ENG
TI Modelling of high-pressure treatments of foods by an artificial neural
   network
AU Torrecilla JS; Otero L; Guignon B; Sanz P-D; Ramos A
TC 0
SO CHISA - INT CONGR CHEM PROCESS ENG
PY 2006
AB an artificial neural network ( ann ) has been used to predict two parameters
   of interest for high pressure food processing : the maximum or minimum
   temperature reached in the sample after pressurization and the time needed
   for thermal re equilibration in the high pressure system . the ann was
   training using 14 different algorithms and then the best one was selected .
   afterwards , an experimental design carried out in order to optimize the ann
   . the levenberg marquard as training function , topology of 5,12,2 ,
   learning coefficient of 0.001 and learning coefficient decrease of 1 appears
   to be the most suitable for such application . the prediction errors and the
   correlation coefficients are 0.4 , 0.9994 and 0.62 , 0.998 % to time and
   temperature , respectively . therefore , the neural networks become now an
   accuracy method alternative to physical based models in the prediction of
   the thermal behavior of food under pressure .
ID algorithms; mathematical models; neural networks; pressurization; physical-
   based models; prediction errors; thermal re-equilibration; food processing

---

UT 1874
AR Srisawas W, 2003, J TEXTURE STUD, V34, P401, DOI
   10.1111/j.1745-4603.2003.tb01072.x
TI Acoustic testing of snack food crispness using neural networks
AU Srisawas W; Jindal VK/1
TC 31
SO J TEXTURE STUD
PY 2003
AB the crispness of selected snack foods , pringles potato chips , paprika
   extruded snack and munchy crackers , was evaluated by crushing the snack
   samples with a pair of pincers , and analyzing the frequency domain spectra
   of acoustic patterns by the neural networks ( nns ) . the inputs for
   training the nns comprised 102 amplitudes of sound signals in 0-7 khz
   frequency range at the intervals of about 69 hz with moisture content or
   crispness grades as outputs . both backpropagation ( bpnn ) and
   probabilistic ( pnn ) models showed good performance in classifying the
   snack foods into four grades of sensory crispness . the prediction accuracy
   of pnn models ranged approximately from 96 to 98 % and was higher than the
   accuracy of bpnn models by about 10 to 25 % . results showed that frequency
   domain spectra of acoustic signals could be successfully analyzed by the nns
   for predicting the crispness of snack food products .
ID solanum tuberosum; acoustic signal processing; backpropagation; fourier
   transforms; frequency domain analysis; moisture; neural networks;
   probability; textures; acoustic signatures; acoustic testing; food products

---

UT 1875
AR Cooper JG, 2006, AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC, P897
TI Data mining for correlations between diet and Crohn's disease activity.
AU Cooper JG; Purcell GP
TC 2
SO AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC
PY 2006
AB crohn s disease is a debilitating condition that affects the entire
   gastrointestinal tract and often requires aggressive and invasive therapies
   . several studies have suggested dietary triggers for disease activity . we
   have created a web based tool to allow participants to record both daily
   food intake and wellness ( i . e . , disease specific quality of life ) . we
   seek to determine if measurable correlations exist between these events in
   patients with crohn s disease . advanced data mining techniques are employed
   to find such correlations and the efficacies of chosen techniques are
   assessed . we tested our web based system in a pilot study involving 7
   participants , and we found that traditional statistical techniques
   identified diet and disease activity correlations in short term data sets .
ID crohn disease; data interpretation statistical; diet; diet records; humans;
   information storage and retrieval; internet; regression analysis; article;
   crohn disease; diet; human; information retrieval; internet; medical record;
   regression analysis; statistical analysis

---

UT 1876
AR Torrecilla JS, 2007, COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC, V56, P101, DOI
   10.1016/j.compag.2007.01.005
TI Optimization of an artificial neural network for thermal/pressure food
   processing: Evaluation of training algorithms
AU Torrecilla JS; Otero L; Sanz PD
TC 40
SO COMPUT ELECTRON AGRIC
PY 2007
AB the aim of the current paper is to obtain , through a proper selection of
   the training algorithm , an optimized artificial neural network ( ann ) able
   to predict two parameters of interest for high pressure ( hp ) food
   processing : the maximum or minimum temperature reached in the sample after
   pressurization and the time needed for thermal re equilibration in the high
   pressure process . to do that , 13 training algorithms belonging to 4 broad
   classes ( gradient descent , conjugate gradient , quasi newton algorithms
   and bayesian regularization ) have been evaluated by training different anns
   . the network trained with the levenberg marquardt algorithm showed the best
   overall predictive ability . the performance of this network was
   subsequently optimized by varying the number of nodes in the hidden layer ,
   the learning coefficient and the decrease factor of this coefficient , and
   selecting the configuration with the highest predictive ability . the
   optimized ann was able to make accurate predictions for the variables
   studied ( temperature and time ) . these predictions were significantly
   better than those obtained by a previous ann developed without selection of
   the training algorithm , that is , assuming the default option of the ann
   computational package ( gradient descent with a user defined learning rate )
   . we have shown that a correct selection of the training algorithm allows
   maximizing the predictive ability of the artificial neural network . 2007
   elsevier b.v
DE artificial neural network; food processing; high pressure; modeling; thermal
   control; training algorithm
ID algorithms; food processing; high pressure effects; optimization;
   pressurization; algorithm; artificial neural network; computer simulation;
   food processing; heating; high pressure; optimization; performance
   assessment; training; levenberg-marquardt algorithm; thermal control;
   thermal re-equilibration; training algorithm; neural networks

---

UT 1877
AR Sun D-W/1, 2006, CHISA - INT CONGR CHEM PROCESS ENG
TI Applications of computer vision for food quality evaluation: A review on
   recent research progress
AU Sun D-W/1
TC 0
SO CHISA - INT CONGR CHEM PROCESS ENG
PY 2006
AB computer vision based on image processing / analysis techniques have been
   increasingly employed in the food industry for quality inspection ,
   classification and evaluation , with great advantages in its objectiveness ,
   efficiency and reliability . the food industry now ranks among the top ten
   industries using computer vision technology . especially computer vision has
   recently been investigated as a tool to evaluate the functional properties
   of cheddar and mozzarella cheeses , topping percentage and distribution of
   pizzas and quality attributes such as shrinkage , pores size and
   distribution , texture and color of cooked meats , which has significantly
   expanded its possible application in the food industry . this paper reviews
   the most recent progress in the application of computer vision in the food
   industry for quality evaluation including meat , poultry , seafood , fruit
   and vegetables , grains and other foods .
DE cheese; computer vision; cooked meats; food; fruit; grain; image analysis;
   image processing; machine vision; meat; pizza; poultry; seafood; vegetables
ID dairy products; fruits; grain ( agricultural product ); image analysis;
   inspection; meats; food industry; food quality; mozzarella cheeses; computer
   vision

---

UT 1878
AR Singh PP/1, 2003, J FOOD PROCESS ENG, V26, P49, DOI
   10.1111/j.1745-4530.2003.tb00589.x
TI Pressure drop estimation in tube flow of non-Newtonian fluid foods by neural
   networks
AU Singh PP/1; Jindal VK
TC 3
SO J FOOD PROCESS ENG
PY 2003
AB a tube flow viscometer complete with data acquisition system was designed
   and developed for continuous measurement of pressure drop and flow velocity
   . experiments were carried out with tomato ketchup , oyster sauce ,
   mayonnaise , and 1 % and 1.5 % cmc solutions in the laminar flow region
   using stainless steel tubes of four diameters ( 0.00751-0.01636 m ) . the
   flow parameters determined with the tube viscometer after slip correction
   and a rotational viscometer were correlated for estimating the pressure drop
   indirectly . finally , it was shown that neural networks could accurately
   predict the pressure drop in tube flow without making any correction for
   wall slip from the input data on tube diameter , fluid density , mass flow
   rate , and power law parameters determined with a rotational viscometer .
   among three neural network architectures tested , the generalized regression
   neural networks were most easy to train and they predicted the pressure drop
   gradient in tube flow with greatest accuracy ( 4.7 % average absolute error
   ) .
ID lycopersicon esculentum; ostreidae; food products; laminar flow; neural
   networks; pipe flow; pressure drop; velocity; viscometers; flow velocity;
   mayonnaise; oystersauce; slip correction; tomato ketchup; tube flow
   viscometer; non newtonian liquids

---

UT 1879
AR Chtioui Y, 1998, OPT ENG, V37, P3015, DOI 10.1117/1.601972
TI Conjugate gradient and approximate Newton methods for an optimal
   probabilistic neural network for food color classification
AU Chtioui Y; Panigrahi S; Marsh R
TC 31
SO OPT ENG
PY 1998
AB the probabilistic neural network ( pnn ) is based on the estimation of the
   probability density functions . the estimation of these density functions
   uses smoothing parameters that represent the width of the activation
   functions . a two step numerical procedure is developed for the optimization
   of the smoothing parameters of the pnn : a rough optimization by the
   conjugate gradient method and a fine optimization by the approximate newton
   method . the thrust is to compare the classification performances of the
   improved pnn and the standard back propagation neural network ( bpnn ) .
   comparisons are performed on a food quality problem : french fry
   classification into three different color classes ( light , normal , and
   dark ) . the optimized pnn correctly classifies 96.19 % of the test data ,
   whereas the bpnn classifies only 93.27 % of the same data . moreover , the
   pnn is more stable than the bpnn with regard to the random initialization .
   the optimized pnn requires 1464 s for training compared to only 71 s
   required by the bpnn . 1998 society of photo optical instrumentation
   engineers .
DE approximate newton; backpropagation neural network; conjugate gradient;
   french fry; probabilistic neural network

---

UT 1880
AR Terouzi W, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, DOI 10.1145/3368756.3369001
TI Development of sustainable multivariate analytical approach for smart
   factory
AU Terouzi W; Oussama A
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB since the beginning of the industrial revolution , technological progress
   has led to a dramatic increase in industrial productivity . therefore ,
   ensuring the quality and authenticity has been a concern of several
   countries . this paper presents a new efficient technique for quality
   control , as key element for sustainable approach of a smart agro food
   factory . this new method was based on attenuated total reflectance fourier
   transform mid infrared spectroscopy ( atr ftmir ) associated with
   multivariate data analysis tools . to examine the reliability of this
   approach , it was applied to a set of samples of agricultural origin . as
   for example the green bean fruit . in the light of the obtained results , it
   has been proved that the proposed approach can be used in smart food factory
   for the reliable , cheap and fast quality control demarche
DE authenticity; quality; smart factory; sustainable approach
ID authentication; infrared spectroscopy; multivariant analysis; productivity;
   agro foods; analytical approach; authenticity; food factories; industrial
   revolutions; key elements; quality; smart factory; sustainable approach;
   technological progress; quality control

---

UT 1881
AR Nakano S, 2020, J HEAL POPUL NUTR, V39, DOI 10.1186/s41043-020-0211-3
TI Aiming for better use of convenience food: An analysis based on meal
   production functions at home
AU Nakano S; Washizu A
TC 21
SO J HEAL POPUL NUTR
PY 2020
AB background : in recent years , the evaluation of convenience food has
   changed . it came to be considered not to have a negative effect on health
   and is now positioned as a tool to support dietary habits of elderly and
   other people . in advanced countries where the population is aging ,
   convenience foods are expected to improve the eating habits of the elderly .
   methods : we defined the indicators of cooking effort and usage intensity of
   convenience food and presented a model wherein a ' meal ' is home produced .
   in the model , a home cook decides the optimal cooking effort to apply for a
   given usage intensity of convenience food . using an empirical form of the
   proposed model , we performed a multiple regression analysis and calculated
   ' the elasticity of cooking effort with respect to the usage intensity of
   convenience food ' for home cooks , with each attribute defined by a
   combination of different personality and demographic factors , using the
   estimated coefficients . results : regression analysis results revealed a
   negative correlation between cooking effort and the usage intensity of
   convenience food , which is consistent with our theoretical model of home
   meal production . the results showed that home cooks who have special food
   preferences may not be satisfied with accepting convenience foods purchased
   from the market as they are and that these home cooks will require a higher
   cooking effort to obtain higher satisfaction . the elasticity of elderly
   home cooks was low , implying that they are not flexible enough to accept
   convenience food . conclusions : the results revealed that existing
   convenience foods do not have the same impact on home cooks with attributes
   . this problem can be solved with smart food systems that utilize
   information and communication technology , which allow home cooks to explore
   information on convenience foods that match their preferences and enable
   food providers to offer food that matches the specific tastes of home cooks
   . the regression results suggest this possibility
DE home production; indicator of convenience food usage intensity; indicator of
   cooking effort; proximity score; smart food system
ID adult; aging; consumer behavior; cooking; fast foods; feeding behavior;
   female; food preferences; humans; male; meals; middle aged; models
   theoretical; regression analysis; young adult; aged; article; controlled
   study; convenience food; cooking; demography; elasticity; female; food
   preference; human; human experiment; male; multiple regression; personality;
   satisfaction; adult; aging; consumer attitude; fast food; feeding behavior;
   meal; middle aged; psychology; regression analysis; theoretical model; young
   adult

---

UT 1882
AR Chen J/6, 2025, FOOD PROD PROCESS NUTR, V7, DOI 10.1186/s43014-025-00328-x
TI Digital 4.0 technologies for quality optimization in pre-processed foods:
   exploring current trends, innovations, challenges, and future directions
AU Chen J/6; Gu Z; Jambrak AR/1; Li P; Zhang M; Xu W; Ashokkumar M; Zhang M/2;
   Wang D/3
TC 4
SO FOOD PROD PROCESS NUTR
PY 2025
AB this review examines recent advancements in digital 4.0 technologies for
   quality control of pre processed foods , with bibliometric analysis
   revealing china and the united states as dominant contributors ( > 50 % of
   publications ) . a notable research trend identified in this area is the
   integration of digital technologies with health related objectives . the
   quality variations in pre processed food arise from complex , interdependent
   processing stages . consequently , investigations limited to isolated steps
   may result in incomplete or biased conclusions . a comprehensive assessment
   across the entire processing chain is therefore necessary , leveraging
   advanced technologies such as image digitization and next generation
   wireless communication systems . the implementation of digital 4.0
   technologies has demonstrated promising outcomes , including recognition
   accuracies exceeding 90 % in certain applications . moving forward , future
   efforts should prioritize the development of standardized food databases ,
   professional workforce training , and enhanced mechanisms for ensuring
   consumer data privacy
DE food industry 40; food proteins; food quality; meat products; pre-processed
   food
ID food chemistry; food industry; food processing; image processing; quality
   control; current; bibliometrics analysis; food industries; food industry 40;
   food proteins; food quality; meat products; pre-processed food; quality
   optimization; research trends; processed foods

---

UT 1883
AR Hassoun A, 2026, DIGIT TECHNOL SUSTAIN AGRIC FOOD SYST, P309, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-33508-2.00011-6
TI Food Industry 4.0: Digital transformation for sustainable and smart food
   systems
AU Hassoun A
TC 0
SO DIGIT TECHNOL SUSTAIN AGRIC FOOD SYST
PY 2026
AB the rapid evolution of industry 4.0 technologies is transforming the food
   sector , addressing critical challenges such as food security , resource
   efficiency , and sustainability . the integration of artificial intelligence
   , big data , the internet of things , robotics , blockchain , and 3d
   printing is optimizing food production , processing , distribution , and
   waste management . these technologies enable real time monitoring ,
   predictive analytics , automation , and enhanced traceability , fostering
   smarter and more sustainable food systems . industry 4.0 innovations are
   also revolutionizing alternative proteins and personalized nutrition ,
   contributing to reduced environmental impact and improved food availability
   . however , significant barriers to adoption remain , including high
   implementation costs , data security concerns , regulatory challenges , and
   workforce adaptation issues . this chapter explores the key enabling
   technologies , their impact on food sustainability , and the challenges
   associated with their implementation . it also discusses potential solutions
   and future directions for achieving more efficient , resilient , and
   environmentally friendly agriculture and food industry
DE alternative proteins; food processing; food sustainability; food waste
   reduction; fourth industrial revolution; personalized nutrition; precision
   agriculture; traceability
ID agriculture; big data; environmental technology; food industry; food
   security; food supply; food waste; industry 40; information management;
   metadata; nutrition; processed foods; smart agriculture; sustainable
   development; waste management; alternative protein; food sustainability;
   food waste; food waste reduction; fourth industrial revolution; industrial
   revolutions; personalized nutrition; precision agriculture; traceability;
   waste reduction; food processing; predictive analytics

---

UT 1884
AR Mostaccio A, 2022, IEEE INT CONF RFID TECHNOL APPL RFID-TA, P109, DOI
   10.1109/RFID-TA54958.2022.9924104
TI RFID for Food Industry 4.0 - Current Trends and Monitoring of Fruit Ripening
AU Mostaccio A; Bianco GM; Amendola S; Marrocco G; Occhiuzzi C
TC 11
SO IEEE INT CONF RFID TECHNOL APPL RFID-TA
PY 2022
AB in the last decade , the technology driven paradigm of industry 4.0 has
   emerged as a game changer also for the food industry . rfid can enable
   multiple new devices and processes accordingly , especially regarding
   logistics , sensing , and eco sustainability . after the introduction of
   current trends of rfid for food processing and distribution , this
   contribution describes an ongoing project for fruit ripening monitoring as a
   case study for rfid based sensing of food . the detailed system can monitor
   avocados at both consumer and stock levels and can estimate the ripening
   status with an accuracy higher than 85 %
DE automatic monitoring; classification algorithms; food industry; fruit
   ripening; industry 40; rfid sensor
ID food processing; fruits; current; automatic monitoring; case-studies;
   classification algorithm; eco-sustainability; food industries; fruit
   ripening; new devices; rfid sensors; stock level; industry 40

---

UT 1885
AR Qian C, 2023, ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V14, P517, DOI 10.1146/annurev-
   food-060721-013815
TI How Can AI Help Improve Food Safety?
AU Qian C; Murphy SI; Orsi RH; Wiedmann M
TC 122
SO ANNU REV FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB with advances in artificial intelligence ( ai ) technologies , the
   development and implementation of digital food systems are becoming
   increasingly possible . there is tremendous interest in using different ai
   applications , such as machine learning models , natural language processing
   , and computer vision to improve food safety . possible ai applications are
   broad and include , but are not limited to , ( a ) food safety risk
   prediction and monitoring as well as food safety optimization throughout the
   supply chain , ( b ) improved public health systems ( e . g . , by providing
   early warning of outbreaks and source attribution ) , and ( c ) detection ,
   identification , and characterization of foodborne pathogens . however , ai
   technologies in food safety lag behind in commercial development because of
   obstacles such as limited data sharing and limited collaborative research
   and development efforts . future actions should be directed toward applying
   data privacy protection methods , improving data standardization , and
   developing a collaborative ecosystem to drive innovations in ai applications
   to food safety
DE computer vision; machine learning; predictive analytics; public health;
   supply chain
ID artificial intelligence; disease outbreaks; ecosystem; food safety; computer
   vision; data privacy; digital storage; health risks; learning algorithms;
   machine learning; natural language processing systems; predictive analytics;
   public health; safety engineering; supply chains; uncertainty analysis;
   artificial intelligence technologies; food system; food safety; language
   processing; machine learning models; machine learning; natural languages;
   risk monitoring; risk predictions; safety risks; artificial intelligence;
   ecosystem; epidemic; food safety; food safety

---

UT 1886
AR Bhatia M/1, 2021, PERVASIVE MOB COMPUT, V72, DOI 10.1016/j.pmcj.2020.101304
TI Intelligent decision-making in Smart Food Industry: Quality perspective
AU Bhatia M/1; Ahanger TA
TC 34
SO PERVASIVE MOB COMPUT
PY 2021
AB fog cloud computing empowered internet of things ( iot ) technology has
   conceptualized the ideology of industry 4.0. inspired by this , the food
   industry 4.0 presents a unique concept for determining food quality in real
   time . conspicuously , the current research provides an iot based smart
   framework for evaluating the food quality parameters in restaurants and food
   outlets . iot technology is primarily utilized to gather data that can
   explicitly affect food quality within a food serving environment . such data
   is analyzed using the bayesian modeling technique on the fog cloud platform
   to derive a unanimous metric in terms of probability of food grade ( pofg )
   . also , food grade assessment scale ( fgas ) is quantified to assess real
   time food oriented parameters in the ambient environment of food outlets and
   restaurants . furthermore , a 2-player game theoretic model is proposed for
   food quality oriented decision services by monitoring officials and food
   managers . for evaluation purposes , the presented model is deployed over a
   challenging dataset comprising of nearly 42,410 instances . the comparative
   simulations were carried out with state of the art methodologies , which
   demonstrated the dominance of the presented model in terms of data
   assessment efficacy , statistical classification analysis , decision making
   efficiency , reliability , and stability
DE fog computing internet of things; game-theoretic decision-modeling; smart
   food industry
ID bayesian networks; decision making; game theory; industry 40; reliability
   analysis; ambient environment; assessment scale; comparative simulation;
   game-theoretic model; intelligent decision making; internet of things ( iot
   ); state of the art; statistical classification; internet of things

---

UT 1887
AR Yakoubi S, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V164, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2025.105241
TI Toward a new industry 5.0 paradigm for human-centered food manufacturing:
   AI-enabled digitization of nano-scale smart nutrient carriers
AU Yakoubi S
TC 6
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : in the era of precision food engineering , the convergence of
   ai powered protein structure prediction , advanced molecular docking , and
   digital twin technologies represents a paradigm shift in the development of
   adaptive delivery systems . the precision design of nanoscale food delivery
   systems increasingly depends on the ability to accurately predict
   interactions between proteins and complex food matrices , which is crucial
   for optimizing encapsulation , stability , and controlled nutrient release .
   scope and approach : this review explores recent advances in computational
   tools for modeling protein structures and predicting protein matrix
   interactions ( pmis ) . it covers template based , de novo , hybrid , and
   deep learning approaches that have redefined molecular modeling capabilities
   . the review also assesses the role of artificial intelligence in enhancing
   molecular docking algorithms , particularly through graph neural networks ,
   natural language processing , and transformer based models . furthermore ,
   it examines the potential of digital twin technologies to virtualize and
   simulate molecular behaviors in real time , creating opportunities for
   dynamic , smart food system design . key findings and conclusions :
   computational and ai driven approaches are transforming the ability to model
   protein structures and predict pmis with unprecedented accuracy . these
   advancements facilitate the design of more effective biointelligent
   encapsulation systems , tailored for enhanced nutrient stability and
   targeted delivery . digital twin technologies complement these developments
   by enabling real time simulation and optimization of delivery system
   performance . taken together , this review integrates these
   interdisciplinary tools to present a roadmap for the next generation of data
   driven , personalized , and sustainable biointelligent food systems for
   controlled release , thereby advancing the frontiers of precision food
   engineering
DE ai integration; biomolecular interactions; computational methods-based ml;
   digital twins; protein dynamics; smart nutrient carriers engineering
ID deep learning; molecular docking; nanosensors; natural language processing
   systems; nutrients; precision engineering; structural design; system
   stability; ai integration; biomolecular interactions; computational method-
   based ml; delivery systems; food engineering; molecular docking; nano scale;
   nutrient carriers; protein dynamics; smart nutrient carrier engineering;
   molecular modeling

---

UT 1888
AR Baire M, 2019, ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND), V8, DOI 10.3390/electronics8121541
TI A wireless sensors network for monitoring the Carasau bread manufacturing
   process
AU Baire M; Melis A; Lodi MB; Tuveri P; Dachena C; Simone M; Fanti A; Fumera G;
   Pisanu T; Mazzarella G
TC 46
SO ELECTRON (SWITZERLAND)
PY 2019
AB this work copes with the design and implementation of a wireless sensors
   network architecture to automatically and continuously monitor , for the
   first time , the manufacturing process of sardinian carasau bread . the case
   of a traditional bakery company facing the challenge of the food industry
   4.0 competitiveness is investigated . the process was analyzed to identify
   the most relevant variables to be monitored during the product manufacturing
   . then , a heterogeneous , multi tier wireless sensors network was designed
   and realized to allow the real time control and the data collection during
   the critical steps of dough production , sheeting , cutting and leavening .
   commercial on the shelf and cost effective integrated electronics were
   employed , making the proposed approach of interest for many practical cases
   . finally , a user friendly interface was provided to enhance the
   understanding , control and to favor the process monitoring . with the
   wireless senors network ( wsn ) we designed , it is possible to monitor
   environmental parameters ( temperature , relative humidity , gas
   concentrations ) . cinematic quantities of the belts . and , through a
   dedicated image processing system , the morphological characteristics of the
   bread before the baking . the functioning of the wsn was demonstrated and a
   statistical analysis was performed on the variables monitored during
   different seasons
DE bread manufacturing; food engineering; iot; monitoring; process
   optimization; system communication; wsn

---

UT 1889
AR Hassoun A, 2024, HELIYON, V10, DOI 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e39388
TI Unveiling the relationship between food unit operations and food industry
   4.0: A short review
AU Hassoun A; Dankar I; Bhat Z; Bouzembrak Y
TC 22
SO HELIYON
PY 2024
AB the fourth industrial revolution ( industry 4.0 ) is driving significant
   changes across multiple sectors , including the food industry . this review
   examines how industry 4.0 technologies , such as smart sensors , artificial
   intelligence , robotics , and blockchain , among others , are transforming
   unit operations within the food sector . these operations , which include
   preparation , processing / transformation , preservation / stabilization ,
   and packaging and transportation , are crucial for converting raw materials
   into high quality food products . by incorporating advanced digital ,
   physical , and biological innovations , industry 4.0 technologies are
   enhancing precision , productivity , and environmental responsibility in
   food production . the review highlights innovative applications and key
   findings that showcase how these technologies can streamline processes ,
   minimize waste , and improve food product quality . the adoption of industry
   4.0 innovations is increasingly reshaping the way food is prepared ,
   transformed , preserved , packaged , and transported to the final consumer .
   the work provides a valuable roadmap for various sectors within agriculture
   and food industries , promoting the adoption of industry 4.0 solutions to
   enhance efficiency , quality , and sustainability throughout the entire food
   supply chain
DE artificial intelligence; automation; biotechnology and nanotechnology;
   digitalization; food processing; fourth industrial revolution; precision
   fermentation; smart factory; smart sensors

---

UT 1890
AR Hassoun A, 2023, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V63, P6547, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2022.2034735
TI The fourth industrial revolution in the food industry—Part I: Industry 4.0
   technologies
AU Hassoun A; Aït-Kaddour A; Abu-Mahfouz AM; Rathod NB; Bader F; Barba FJ;
   Biancolillo A; Cropotova J; Galanakis CM; Jambrak AR/1; Lorenzo JM; Måge I;
   Ozogul F; Regenstein J
TC 336
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2023
AB climate change , the growth in world population , high levels of food waste
   and food loss , and the risk of new disease or pandemic outbreaks are
   examples of the many challenges that threaten future food sustainability and
   the security of the planet and urgently need to be addressed . the fourth
   industrial revolution , or industry 4.0 , has been gaining momentum since
   2015 , being a significant driver for sustainable development and a
   successful catalyst to tackle critical global challenges . this review paper
   summarizes the most relevant food industry 4.0 technologies including ,
   among others , digital technologies ( e . g . , artificial intelligence ,
   big data analytics , internet of things , and blockchain ) and other
   technological advances ( e . g . , smart sensors , robotics , digital twins
   , and cyber physical systems ) . moreover , insights into the new food
   trends ( such as 3d printed foods ) that have emerged as a result of the
   industry 4.0 technological revolution will also be discussed in part ii of
   this work . the industry 4.0 technologies have significantly modified the
   food industry and led to substantial consequences for the environment ,
   economics , and human health . despite the importance of each of the
   technologies mentioned above , ground breaking sustainable solutions could
   only emerge by combining many technologies simultaneously . the food
   industry 4.0 era has been characterized by new challenges , opportunities ,
   and trends that have reshaped current strategies and prospects for food
   production and consumption patterns , paving the way for the move toward
   industry 5.0
DE artificial intelligence; autonomous robots; big data; blockchain; digital
   transformation; internet of things; smart sensors
ID artificial intelligence; food; food industry; humans; internet; refuse
   disposal; 3d printers; big data; blockchain; climate change; data analytics;
   embedded systems; intelligent robots; internet of things; metadata;
   population statistics; sustainable development; blockchain; digital
   transformation; food industries; food loss; food waste; gaining momentum;
   global challenges; industrial revolutions; world population; ]+ catalyst;
   artificial intelligence; food; food industry; human; internet; waste
   disposal; industry 40

---

UT 1891
AR Jalal M, 2019, MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED
   MM, P50, DOI 10.1145/3347448.3357170
TI Scraping social media photos posted in Kenya and elsewhere to detect and
   analyze food types
AU Jalal M; Wang K/1; Jefferson S; Zheng Y; Nsoesie EO; Betke M
TC 24
SO MADIMA - PROC INT WORK MULTIMED ASSIST DIET MANAG CO-LOCATED MM
PY 2019
AB monitoring population level changes in diet could be useful for education
   and for implementing interventions to improve health . research has shown
   that data from social media sources can be used for monitoring dietary
   behavior . we propose ascrape by location methodology to create food image
   datasets from instagram posts . we used it to collect 3.56 million images
   over a period of 20 days in march 2019 . we also propose a scrape by
   keywords methodology and used it to scrape 30,000 images and their captions
   of 38 kenyan food types . we publish two datasets of 104,000 and 8,174 image
   / caption pairs , respectively . with the first dataset , kenya104k , we
   train a kenyan food classifier , called kenyanfc , to distinguish kenyan
   food from non food images posted in kenya . we used the second dataset ,
   kenyanfood13 , to train a classifier kenyan ftr , short for kenyan food type
   recognizer , to recognize 13 popular food types in kenya . the kenyanftr is
   a multimodal deep neural network that can identify 13 types of kenyan foods
   using both images and their corresponding captions . experiments show that
   the average top 1 accuracy of kenyanfc is 99 % over 10,400 tested instagram
   images and of kenyanftr is 81 % over 8,174 tested data points . ablation
   studies show that three of the 13 food types are particularly difficult to
   categorize based on image content only and that adding analysis of captions
   to the image analysis yields a classifier that is 9 percent points more
   accurate than a classifier that relies only on images . our food trend
   analysis revealed that cakes and roasted meats were the most popular foods
   in photographs on instagram in kenya in march 2019
DE data mining; food detection; image datasets; social media
ID classification ( of information ); data mining; deep neural networks; social
   networking ( online ); food detection; food trends; image content; image
   datasets; multi-modal; population levels; social media; tested data; image
   analysis

---

UT 1892
AR Mostaccio A, 2023, IEEE J RADIO FREQ IDENTIF, V7, P145, DOI
   10.1109/JRFID.2023.3278722
TI RFID Technology for Food Industry 4.0: A Review of Solutions and
   Applications
AU Mostaccio A; Bianco GM; Marrocco G; Occhiuzzi C
TC 61
SO IEEE J RADIO FREQ IDENTIF
PY 2023
AB the emerging fourth industrial revolution is revolutionizing the food
   industry , which has historically been plagued by food waste and
   contamination . several internet of things ( iot ) technologies have been
   proposed for optimizing processes and reducing costs while improving health
   conditions and safety in food consumption . among them , radiofrequency
   identification ( rfid ) has been considered from the beginning a key
   instrument , especially in food logistics and management . many
   contributions and case studies from academia and industry demonstrated the
   strategic role and the impact on existing and future paradigms of food . the
   literature analysis in the present work suggests a growing interest in rfid
   to implement optimization procedures for food management and control . this
   review describes rfid employment in three pillars of the fourth generation
   of the food industry ( fi4.0 ) : logistics , sensing , and green rfid . the
   logistics one comprises the most mature applications for rfid , such as cold
   chain monitoring or product tracking . food sensing , instead , is currently
   the most attractive research area for both industry and academia , so
   researchers are focusing their attention on detecting physical and chemical
   parameters through direct and indirect sensing approaches . furthermore ,
   the ever increasing amount of electronic waste motivated the research
   community to provide sustainable tags to establish green rfid devices .
   according to this literature review , rfid can foster the fourth industrial
   revolution in food , especially considering the emerging synergy with
   artificial intelligence and biodegradable / resorbable materials
DE edible; food; green; nfc; radio frequency identification; smart packaging
ID food supply; industrial research; industry 40; internet of things; radio
   frequency identification ( rfid ); bibliometric; edible; food industries;
   green; market researches; nfc; radiofrequencies; radio frequency
   identification; smart packaging; temperature measurement

---

UT 1893
AR Hassoun A, 2022, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V5, P2261, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2022.11.010
TI Emerging trends in the agri-food sector: Digitalisation and shift to plant-
   based diets
AU Hassoun A; Boukid F; Pasqualone A; Bryant CJ; García GG; Parra-López C;
   Jagtap S; Trollman H/1; Cropotova J; Barba FJ
TC 97
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2022
AB our planet is currently facing unprecedented interconnected environmental ,
   societal , and economic dilemmas due to climate change , the outbreak of
   pandemics and wars , among others . these global challenges pose direct
   threats to food security and safety and clearly show the urgent need for
   innovative scientific solutions and technological approaches . backed by the
   current alarming situation , many food related trends have emerged in recent
   years in response to these global issues . this review looks at two
   megatrends in agriculture and the food industry . the shift to vegetable
   diets and the digital transformation in food production and consumption
   patterns . on one side , several innovative technologies and protein sources
   have been associated with more sustainable food systems and enhanced
   nutritional quality and safety . on the other side , many digital advanced
   technologies ( e . g . , artificial intelligence , big data , the internet
   of things , blockchain , and 3d printing ) have been increasingly applied in
   smart farms and smart food factories to improve food system outcomes .
   increasing adoption of vegetal innovations and harnessing industry 4.0
   technologies along the food supply chain have the potential to enable
   efficient digital and ecological transitions
DE digitalisation; food industry 40; precision agriculture; smart food factory;
   sustainability; vegan; vegetarian diets
ID agricultural land; agriculture; artificial intelligence; big data;
   blockchain; computer aided design; digitalization; food industry; food
   insecurity; food processing; human; internet of things; nutritional value;
   precision agriculture; review; three dimensional printing; vegan; vegan
   diet; vegetarian diet

---

UT 1894
AR Pérez-Pons ME, 2021, SUSTAIN, V13, P1, DOI 10.3390/su13010283
TI Increasing profitability and monitoring environmental performance: a case
   study in the agri-food industry through an edge-iot platform
AU Pérez-Pons ME; Plaza-Hernández M; Alonso RS; Parra-Domínguez J; Prieto J
TC 29
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2021
AB globalization has led to a new paradigm where the traditional industries ,
   such as agricul ture , employ vanguard technologies to broaden its
   possibilities into what is known as smart farming and the agri food industry
   4.0. this industry needs to adapt to the current market through an efficient
   use of resources while being environmentally friendly . the most commonly
   used approaches for analyzing efficiency and sustainability on farms are
   production efficiency based analyzes , such as data envelopment analysis and
   stochastic frontier analysis , since they allow to see how efficient the
   outputs are generated regardless of the units of measurement of the inputs .
   this work presents a real scenario for making farms more profitable and
   sustainable through the analysis of the data envelopment analysis and the
   application of the internet of things and edge computing . what makes this
   model interesting is that it allows monitoring the ambient conditions with
   real time data from the different sensors that have been installed on the
   farm , minimizing costs and gaining robustness in the transmission of the
   data to the cloud with edge computing , and then to have a complete overview
   in terms of monthly resource efficiency through the data envelopment
   analysis . the results show that including the costs of edge and non edge
   data transfer have an impact on the efficiency . this small scale study set
   the basis for a future test with many farms simultaneously
DE eco-efficiency; edge computing; environmental performance; internet of
   things; profitability; smart farming
ID agroindustry; data envelopment analysis; environmental monitoring; food
   industry; globalization; internet; performance assessment; profitability;
   resource use

---

UT 1895
AR Jia W/2, 2022, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V5, P1017, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2022.05.016
TI Hyperspectral Imaging (HSI) for meat quality evaluation across the supply
   chain: Current and future trends
AU Jia W/2; van Ruth S; Scollan N; Koidis A
TC 71
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2022
AB meat products are particularly plagued by safety problems because of their
   complicated structure , various production processes and complex supply
   chains . rapid and non invasive analytical methods to evaluate meat quality
   have become a priority for the industry over the conventional chemical
   methods . to achieve rapid analysis of safety and quality parameters of meat
   products , hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) is now widely applied in research
   studies for detecting the various components of different meat products ,
   but its application in meat production and supply chain integrity as a
   quality control ( qc ) solution is still ambiguous . this review presents
   the fresh look at the current states of hsi research as both the scope and
   the applicability of the hsi in the meat quality evaluation expanded . the
   future application scenarios of hsi in the supply chain and the future
   development of hsi hardware and software are also discussed , by which hsi
   technology has the potential to enable large scale meat product testing .
   with a fully adapted for factory setting hsi , the inspection coverage can
   reliably identify the chemical properties of meat products . with the
   introduction of food industry 4.0 , hsi advances can change the meat
   industry to become from reactive to predictive when facing meat safety
   issues
DE hyperspectral imaging; meat products; meat supply chain; safety and quality
   evaluation
ID analytic method; food industry; food safety; hyperspectral imaging; infrared
   spectroscopy; limit of detection; meat; meat industry; nonhuman; predictive
   value; quality control; raman spectrometry; review; validation process

---

UT 1896
AR Datta A, 2022, NAT FOOD, V3, P894, DOI 10.1038/s43016-022-00617-5
TI Computer-aided food engineering
AU Datta A; Nicolaï B; Vitrac O; Verboven P; Erdogdu F; Marra F; Sarghini F;
   Koh C
TC 58
SO NAT FOOD
PY 2022
AB computer aided food engineering ( cafe ) can reduce resource use in product
   , process and equipment development , improve time to market performance ,
   and drive high level innovation in food safety and quality . yet , cafe is
   challenged by the complexity and variability of food composition and
   structure , by the transformations food undergoes during processing and the
   limited availability of comprehensive mechanistic frameworks describing
   those transformations . here we introduce frameworks to model food processes
   and predict physiochemical properties that will accelerate cafe . we review
   how investments in open access , such as code sharing , and capacity
   building through specialized courses could facilitate the use of cafe in the
   transformation already underway in digital food systems . 2022 , springer
   nature limited .
ID computer aided food engineering; food composition; food industry; food
   quality; food safety; physical chemistry; review; software; capacity
   building; computer; food; investment; open access; pharmaceutics; review

---

UT 1897
AR Mbadlisa G, 2024, SUSTAIN FOOD SYST, V8, DOI 10.3389/fsufs.2024.1497599
TI Factors affecting the adoption of blockchain technologies in the food supply
   chain
AU Mbadlisa G; Jokonya O
TC 18
SO SUSTAIN FOOD SYST
PY 2024
AB with the rise in food insecurity , one of the united nation s sustainable
   development goals is to end hunger , achieve food security , and promote
   sustainable agriculture . this can be achieved through the strengthening and
   development of existing food systems . integrating emerging technologies
   such as blockchain technology can help develop sustainable food systems .
   blockchain technology allows the tracking and tracing of food items as they
   move through the supply chain . blockchain technology also allows for low
   transactional costs at almost instantaneous applications . there is however
   a low adoption rate of blockchain technology among organizations in the food
   supply chain . the objective of the study was to explore factors that affect
   the adoption of blockchain technology in the food supply chain . the study
   adopted a quantitative research method that was guided by the technology ,
   organization , and environment framework ( toe ) to explore factors
   affecting blockchain technology adoption in the food supply chain . a
   systematic literature review was used for the study . quantitative content
   analysis was used to analyze peer reviewed articles . results showed that
   toe factors affect the adoption of blockchain technology in the food supply
   chain . factors such as cost , scalability , firm size , and it policy were
   noted as important factors affecting the adoption of blockchain technology
   in the food supply chain . the study contributes to the body of knowledge on
   factors that affect the adoption of blockchain technology in the food supply
   chain
DE blockchain adoption; blockchain technology; digital food systems; food
   insecurity; food supply chain; food systems; toe framework

---

UT 1898
AR Aït-Kaddour A, 2024, SCI ENV, V955, DOI 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176872
TI Transforming plant-based waste and by-products into valuable products using
   various “Food Industry 4.0” enabling technologies: A literature review
AU Aït-Kaddour A; Hassoun A; Tarchi I; Loudiyi M; Boukria O; Cahyana Y; Ozogul
   F; Khwaldia K
TC 85
SO SCI ENV
PY 2024
AB the last several years have seen unprecedented strain on food systems as a
   result of pandemics , climate change , population growth , and urbanization
   . thus , academic and scientific communities now view global food security
   as a critical issue . however , food loss and waste are a major challenge
   when adopting food security and sustainability strategies , since a large
   proportion of food is lost or wasted along the food supply chain . in order
   to use resources efficiently and enhance food security and sustainability ,
   food waste and by products must be reduced and properly valorized . plant
   based food production generates various by products which are generally rich
   in nutrients and bioactive compounds . emerging technologies have been
   effectively employed to extract these valuable compounds with health
   benefits . recently , industry 4.0 technologies such as artificial
   intelligence , the internet of things , blockchain , robotics , smart
   sensors , 3d printing , and digital twins have a great deal of potential for
   waste reduction and by products valorization in food industry . reducing
   food waste not only benefits the environment , but also reduces greenhouse
   gas emissions and thus contributes to sustainable resource management . this
   review provides up to date information on the potential of industry 4.0 for
   converting plant based waste and by products into valuable products . recent
   studies showed that innovations in industry 4.0 provide attractive
   opportunities to increase the effectiveness of manufacturing operations and
   improve food quality , safety and traceability . by leveraging food industry
   4.0 , companies can transform plant based waste and by products into
   valuable products and contribute to a more sustainable and efficient food
   production system
DE by-products; fourth industrial revolution; plant-based waste;
   sustainability; valuable products
ID artificial intelligence; conservation of natural resources; food industry;
   food security; food supply; waste management; waste products; enabling
   technologies; food industries; food security; food system; food waste;
   fourth industrial revolution; industrial revolutions; literature reviews;
   plant-based waste; valuable product; artificial intelligence; by-product;
   food production; food quality; food security; greenhouse gas; literature
   review; sustainability; waste management; artificial intelligence;
   blockchain; catering service; climate change; digital twin; electric
   potential; food; food industry; food quality; food security; food waste;
   greenhouse gas emission; human; internet of things; nonhuman; nutrient;
   pandemic; pharmaceutics; plant; population growth; review; sensor; three
   dimensional printing; urbanization; valorization; waste; environmental
   protection; procedures; waste; waste management; industry 40

---

UT 1899
AR Vashishth R, 2022, SMART SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL, P125, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-19-1746-2_5
TI Smart Technologies in Food Manufacturing
AU Vashishth R; Pandey AK; Kaur P; Semwal AD
TC 14
SO SMART SUSTAIN FOOD TECHNOL
PY 2022
AB the concept of ' smart food factory ' is also known as ' food industry 4.0 '
   or ' connected food industry ' which relies on the up gradation of existing
   facilities to modern technologies and their integration with the internet ,
   cyber physical system , artificial intelligence , big data , cloud computing
   , etc . smart food industry is a digitally connected , automated food
   processing environment where the real time monitoring of physical operations
   , collection and sharing of data throughout the processing line , storing
   and processing the data through neural networking and algorithm ,
   communicating and cooperating with humans in real time , along with precise
   control over the operation through actuators and robots are done
   simultaneously . as compared to others , food industries are lagging behind
   in adoption of modern technologies . however , increasing market
   requirements and strict compliance of food safety regulation in food
   industries around the world like , grain processing industry , fruits and
   vegetables processing industry , meat , fish and poultry processing industry
   , dairy and beverage industry , etc . , upgraded their existing facilities
   at different levels with modern technologies . this chapter illustrates a
   deep insight on transformation of different food processing industries from
   a traditional processing environment to a digitally connected modern
   technologies based environment over the decades
DE artificial intelligence; automation; food industry 40; internet of things;
   processing

---

UT 1900
AR Aït-Kaddour A, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD
   CONSUM, P35, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-15516-1.00003-7
TI Food Quality 4.0: contribution to sustainability
AU Aït-Kaddour A; Boudalia S; Özoğul F; Çiçek S; Cahyana Y; Bhat ZF
TC 3
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB the food industry faces many challenges and criticism from public
   authorities and consumers due to its sizable negative impact on the
   environment and the production of ultra processed and unhealthy foods . an
   urgent need of this sector is to review its organization and processes all
   along the supply chain to tackle these challenges and address consumer
   expectations in terms of quality and environmental sustainability . the
   advent of smart sensors , artificial intelligence , big data , connected
   objects , and blockchain strategy among others have given birth to the food
   industry 4.0. this industry of the future offers a great opportunity to
   address the current societal issues to ensure sustainable and quality food
   production . food quality control is one of the cornerstones to address
   future challenges in the food industry . quality based on industry 4.0
   technologies has given birth to quality 4.0 and more recently to food
   quality 4.0. the quality of food is a key factor in the success of food
   industry 4.0 , and its management can lead to the production of
   environmentally friendly and healthier products through the optimization of
   industrial transformation processes of the supply chain
DE biochemistry applications; food; food analysis; food products; food quality;
   food safety; food science; food technology; industry 40; packaging; sensor;
   smart sensors; sustainable development

---

UT 1901
AR Ozkan G, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM,
   P99, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-15516-1.00006-2
TI Food processing and preservation in the Food Industry 4.0 era
AU Ozkan G; Turgut SS; Gultekin Subasi B; Capanoglu E; Esatbeyoglu T; Feyissa
   AH
TC 3
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB the fourth industrial revolution has been gaining great attention since last
   year and has resulted in the dissemination of the use of digital
   technologies throughout the food production chain . in the food industry 4.0
   era , modeling and digital twins are crucial tools for sustainability and
   safety in food manufacture . in addition to these , emerging food processing
   techniques have been widely taken into consideration to obtain food products
   with improved final characteristics and reduced impact on the environment .
   this chapter will highlight the roles of modeling and digitalization (
   focusing on digital twins ) in food processing and preservation as well as
   the potential to use both jointly . besides , recent studies that applied
   novel processing techniques including pulsed electric field , ultrasound ,
   high hydrostatic pressure , and cold plasma have been covered in detail by
   emphasizing the purpose of the treatment , operating conditions , and
   outcomes as well as their adaptation potential for modeling and
   digitalization
DE advanced processing systems; digital solutions; digital twins; emerging food
   processing; food modeling; innovation; shelf life

---

UT 1902
AR Yang S/3, 2025, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V24, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.70317
TI Egg Freshness Safety and Detection Techniques: A Comprehensive Review and
   Future Perspective
AU Yang S/3; Ma Z; Chi Y; Chi Y/1
TC 1
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2025
AB globally , annual egg production has steadily increased , and liquid eggs
   are gradually replacing she will eggs , with the potential to become the
   dominant form of future egg consumption . however , current freshness
   evaluation systems mainly focus on she will eggs , with almost no global
   standard for liquid eggs . beginning with deterioration mechanisms of egg
   freshness , this review systematically summarizes traditional and novel
   techniques for egg freshness detection , covering principles , attributes (
   accuracy , cost , model , duration , sample integrity ) , and potentials (
   online and automated detection ) , with particular emphasis on applicability
   to she will eggs and liquid eggs . among traditional techniques , haugh unit
   and candling are authoritative but limited to she will eggs . among novel
   techniques , raman spectroscopy has proven effective for evaluating liquid
   egg yolk freshness , and electrochemical chemometric detection has been
   applied to liquid egg white . in addition , low field nuclear magnetic
   resonance characterizes water distribution in liquid eggs , olfactory
   sensors monitor volatile compounds during storage , and machine vision and
   microwave near field imaging also show potential for evaluating liquid egg
   freshness . meanwhile , all above techniques are nondestructive and show
   strong potential for online , continuous , and automated detection . for
   modeling : deep learning , machine learning , and stacking ensemble
   strategies have enabled hyperspectral imaging and dielectric spectroscopy to
   achieve 100 % accuracy . in context of food industry 4.0 , future research
   should integrate diverse models with promising techniques to enhance
   applicability to both she will and liquid eggs and improve practicality ,
   thereby providing critical references for establishing global standards on
   liquid egg freshness . 2025 institute of food technologists .
DE deterioration mechanism of egg freshness; electrochemical-chemometric
   detection; imaging-based detection; liquid egg; olfactory sensor-based
   detection; spectral detection
ID animals; eggs; food safety; humans; spectrum analysis raman; chemical
   detection; deep learning; deterioration; electronic nose; hyperspectral
   imaging; learning systems; nondestructive examination; nuclear magnetic
   resonance; signal detection; volatile organic compounds; chemometrices;
   deterioration mechanism; deterioration mechanism of egg freshness;
   electrochemical-chemometric detection; electrochemicals; imaging-based
   detection; liquid eggs; olfactory sensor-based detection; shell eggs;
   spectral detection; animal; egg; food safety; human; raman spectrometry;
   shells ( structures )

---

UT 1903
AR Brar DS, 2025, MICROCHEM J, V215, DOI 10.1016/j.microc.2025.114231
TI Effect of optimisations on CNN performance in identifying adulteration of
   red chilli powder
AU Brar DS; Singh B/2; Nanda V
TC 7
SO MICROCHEM J
PY 2025
AB this study presents a deep learning framework for the detection and
   classification of adulteration in red chili powder using image based
   analysis . besides the aim is to analyze the effect of various optimization
   techniques to balance the classification performance of the densenet models
   . hence , two architectures , densenet 121 and densenet 169 , were optimized
   using three optimisers ( namely adamclr , rmsprop , and adamw ) across three
   batch sizes ( i . e . , 16 , 32 , 64 ) over 150 epochs . further , the
   performance of the models was analyzed on two custom datasets : one for
   binary classification ( pure vs . adulterated rcp ) and the second for
   multiclass classification , identifying six natural adulterants at
   concentration levels 5 % , 10 % and 15 % . the performance was evaluated
   using standard metrics derived from confusion matrices , while gradient
   weighted class activation mapping visualizations enhanced model
   interpretability . the densenet 169 combined with adamclr optimizer at batch
   size 32 achieved the highest binary classification accuracy ( 98.92 % ) and
   robust convergence . in multiclass classification , the same configuration
   demonstrated superior generalization ( accuracy : 96.73 % ) . adamclr
   consistently outperformed rmsprop and adamw , offering stability , rapid
   convergence , and resilience across datasets . rmsprop exhibited batch size
   sensitivity and instability , while adamw , delivered occasional competitive
   results but lacked robustness without meticulous hyperparameter tuning .
   overall , the results highlight the critical role of dynamic learning rate
   strategies and model depth in optimizing convolution neural networks
   performance for food adulteration detection . this framework demonstrates
   strong potential for real world applications in spice authentication and
   food quality assurance
DE artificial intelligence technology; food authentication; food industry 40;
   neural networks; optimization strategies; spice adulteration

---

UT 1904
AR Braggio M, 2026, FOOD CONTROL, V187, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2026.112183
TI Sensor technologies in the food industry under industry 4.0: A systematic
   review
AU Braggio M; Melesse TY; Arena S; Orrù PF; Briatore F
TC 1
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2026
AB the food industry is undergoing a rapid transformation driven by the
   integration of advanced sensor technologies and industry 4.0 digital
   enablers . ensuring food quality , safety , sustainability , and
   traceability across increasingly complex supply chains requires real time ,
   scalable , data driven monitoring solutions . this paper presents a
   comprehensive analysis of the scientific literature on sensor technologies
   applied to the food industry within the industry 4.0 framework , using both
   bibliometric and content based analyzes . the former aims to examine
   publication trends , geographical distribution , and keyword co occurrence
   patterns , identifying dominant research themes and technological directions
   . the latter concentrates on the principal sensor classifications employed
   in food systems , including chemical , biological , optical , physical , and
   nano enabled sensors . the study further investigates how these sensing
   technologies are integrated with key digital enablers such as the internet
   of things , artificial intelligence , machine learning , cloud computing ,
   blockchain , and additive manufacturing . the focus is on the role of
   sensors at each step of the food supply chain , from growing and processing
   to storage , transport , sales , and consumption . the results indicate that
   sensor based solutions are becoming more mature and have the potential to
   improve food safety , operational efficiency , sustainability , and
   traceability . at the same time , the paper identifies the main challenges
   that still limit their large scale adoption and outlines future research
   directions toward fully integrated smart food systems
DE agri-food supply chain; digital transformation; food monitoring; industry
   40; sensor technologies; smart monitoring systems

---

UT 1905
AR Hassoun A, 2025, SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER, VPart F1068, P69, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-06527-8_4
TI Role of Fourth Industrial Revolution Technologies in Creating a World Free
   of Hunger: Food Security 4.0
AU Hassoun A
TC 0
SO SUSTAIN DEV GOALS SER
PY 2025
AB food security remains a critical global challenge , increasingly threatened
   by climate change , population growth , and supply chain disruptions . the
   emergence of food industry 4.0 offers transformative solutions through
   advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence ( ai ) , blockchain ,
   the internet of things ( iot ) , robotics , and big data analytics , among
   others . these innovations enhance food production , optimize supply chains
   , improve traceability , and promote sustainable resource use . this chapter
   explores how industry 4.0 technologies contribute to achieving sustainable
   development goal 2 ( sdg 2 ) -zero hunger by increasing efficiency ,
   reducing food losses , and strengthening the resilience of food systems .
   drawing on a structured review of peer reviewed publications indexed in
   scopus , the chapter analyzes how these technologies drive improvements
   across agriculture , supply chain management , and food distribution . the
   findings demonstrate that the integration of ai , iot , blockchain , big
   data , and other related technologies , significantly boosts agricultural
   productivity and supply chain efficiency . together , they create a smart ,
   adaptive food system capable of withstanding economic and environmental
   uncertainties . introducing the concept of ' food security 4.0 ' , this
   chapter highlights the transformative potential of combining advanced
   technologies to build a more sustainable , resilient , and intelligent
   global food system aligned with sdg 2. however , challenges such as high
   implementation costs , data security risks , and infrastructure limitations
   must be addressed to enable broader adoption
DE 3d printing; artificial intelligence; big data; food insecurity; industry
   40; iot; precision agriculture; resilience; smart food factory;
   sustainability

---

UT 1906
AR Dadhaneeya H, 2023, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V139, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2023.07.006
TI Internet of Things in food processing and its potential in Industry 4.0 era:
   A review
AU Dadhaneeya H; Nema PK; Arora VK
TC 119
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2023
AB background : food processing is a technique to convert agricultural produce
   into a consumable food product with enhanced shelf life . the advent of
   industry 4.0 greatly facilitates the adoption of several digital approaches
   in the food processing industry . food manufacturing and processing
   industries need to accelerate and shift toward using technology like the '
   internet of things ' ( iot ) to meet demand , produce extremely safe food
   and sustain the organization s goal . scope and approach : this paper aims
   to pinpoint several aspects and potential areas of application of iot in the
   food processing industry . this review acts as a technical manual for the
   food processing sector to enable the data stream of the iot system . with
   these prospects , smart factories can be created by merging iot and
   processing technology . key findings and conclusions : in the food
   processing industry , iot has the potential to improve overall
   sustainability practices , reduce energy consumption , reduce manufacturing
   costs , enhance worker health and safety during food manufacturing , create
   eco friendly products and improve working conditions . meanwhile , a new era
   of food processing has ascended with the application of the internet of
   things ( iot ) and converting the aging process into a smart process by
   better controlling , real time data detection and optimization , as well as
   efficient production and monitoring
DE food industry 40; food processing technologies; internet of things ( iot );
   real time data detection; smart sensors
ID accident prevention; energy utilization; food processing; industry 40;
   processed foods; sustainable development; consumables; data detection; food
   industries; food industry 40; food processing industry; food processing
   technology; internet of thing; real time data; real time data detection;
   shelf life; internet of things

---

UT 1907
AR Hassoun A, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM,
   P1, DOI 10.1016/C2022-0-01211-3
TI Food Industry 4.0: Emerging Trends and Technologies in Sustainable Food
   Production and Consumption
AU Hassoun A
TC 15
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB developments in food quality and safety series is the most up to date
   resource covering trend topics such as advances in the analysis of toxic
   compounds and control of food poisoning . food fraud , traceability and
   authenticity . revalorization of agrifood industry . natural antimicrobial
   compounds and application to improve the preservation of food . non thermal
   processing technologies in the food industry . nanotechnology in food
   production . and intelligent packaging and sensors for food applications .
   volume 4 , food industry 4.0 : emerging trends and technologies in food
   production and consumption covers several technologies ( e . g . , robotics
   , smart sensors , artificial intelligence , and big data ) at different
   development and research levels in order to provide holistic
   multidisciplinary approaches that embrace simultaneously as many industry
   4.0 technologies as possible , reflecting the long journey of food from farm
   ( or sea ) to fork . chapters explore automation , digitalization , and
   green technologies , besides food quality , food safety food traceability ,
   processing and preservation 4.0. topics such as smart sensors , artificial
   intelligence and big data revolution , additive manufacturing , and emerging
   food trends are also explored . the series is edited by dr . jose manuel
   lorenzo and authored by a team of global experts in the fields of food
   quality and safety , providing comprehensive knowledge to food industry
   personals and scientists . 2024 elsevier inc . all rights are reserved
   including those for text and data mining ai training and similar
   technologies .

---

UT 1908
AR Tufano A, 2018, COMPUT IND, V103, P72, DOI 10.1016/j.compind.2018.09.007
TI Plant design and control in food service industry.  A multi-disciplinary
   decision-support system
AU Tufano A; Accorsi R; Garbellini F; Manzini R
TC 24
SO COMPUT IND
PY 2018
AB every day , thousands of pupils , students , employees , and hospital
   patients eat food outside their homes that is cooked far from the place of
   consumption . the food service industry is responsible for supplying this
   food to schools , hospitals , nurseries , as well as to company canteens .
   the design , control , and management of food service operations is
   challenging given the complexity of such multiple facility production
   networks and entails multidisciplinary perspectives and competences . both
   production and logistics operations play crucial roles and significantly
   affect the service performance as long as food products are prepared within
   a facility , and as long as they are distributed to multiple consumption
   sites . hence , there are many planning decisions ( e . g . the definition
   of the production facility location , the allocation of task to resources
   and the scheduling of production jobs ) , that are handled at different
   stages by different actors , who often decide based on their own practical
   experience and barely adopt integrated decision support systems . a review
   of the literature shows that there is no integrated approach to support the
   design of food service production facilities , known as centralized kitchens
   ( cekis ) . to facilitate such integration and assist food service managers
   to adopt quantitative and data driven design approaches , this study
   proposes an original computer based multidisciplinary decision support tool
   for the design and configuration of a ceki . the proposed tool aids
   decisions taken by multiple actors simultaneously through a set of
   interfaces driven by quantitative data that follow the logistical flow of
   materials throughout the ceki ( 1 ) , assesses performance indicators in a
   multidisciplinary dashboard ( 2 ) , and implements what if , multiple
   scenario analyzes based on simulations ( 3 ) . graphical interfaces are
   designed to facilitate communication between the decision makers and the
   integration of data driven analyzes . the design of a new ceki is used as a
   testbed for the decision support tool . the real world example highlights
   the interdependencies between issues and decisions and showcases how
   computer applications facilitate decision making and improve communication
   between managers
DE food control; food industry 40; multi-decision making; plant design;
   processing resources
ID artificial intelligence; data integration; decision making; food supply;
   hospitals; location; logistics; managers; decision support tools; food
   control; food industries; food service industry; multi-disciplinary
   perspectives; performance indicators; plant designs; processing resources;
   decision support systems

---

UT 1909
AR Hassoun A, 2025, SEAF 40 DIGIT PHYS BIOL INNOV SEA TABLE, P3, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-33750-5.00004-4
TI Food Industry 4.0: Principles, technologies, and the emergence of Seafood
   4.0
AU Hassoun A; Rejeb A
TC 0
SO SEAF 40 DIGIT PHYS BIOL INNOV SEA TABLE
PY 2025
AB the global food sector is experiencing a significant transformation through
   the adoption of industry 4.0 technologies , including artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , blockchain , internet of things ( iot ) , robotics ,
   big data analytics , and smart sensors , among others . these advancements
   are reshaping food production , processing , and supply chains by enhancing
   efficiency , transparency , and sustainability . this chapter explores the
   enabling technologies of industry 4.0 and introduces the concept of seafood
   4.0 , demonstrating how these innovations address challenges in aquaculture
   , fisheries , and seafood processing by optimizing resource use , enhancing
   traceability , and ensuring product quality while fostering sustainable
   practices . applications such as iot and smart sensors for aquaculture
   monitoring , blockchain for fisheries traceability , and robotics for
   seafood processing automation are transforming the sector . however ,
   adaptation of these applications faces significant challenges , including
   high costs , infrastructure gaps , and data privacy concerns . overcoming
   these obstacles will require collaboration among stakeholders , supportive
   regulatory frameworks , and strategic investment in innovation . the
   adoption of these advanced technologies empowers diverse food related
   sectors , including seafood , to enhance efficiency , transparency , and
   sustainability , ensuring food security and promoting environmental
   stewardship . 2026 elsevier inc . all rights reserved . .
DE aquaculture; fisheries; fourth industrial revolution; seafood processing;
   seafood quality; traceability
ID advanced analytics; big data; data privacy; environmental technology; food
   industry; food security; food supply; industry 40; internet of things;
   meats; network security; robotics; smart sensors; supply chains; sustainable
   development; blockchain; data analytics; food industries; food production;
   food sector; fourth industrial revolution; industrial revolutions; seafood
   processing; seafood quality; traceability; fisheries

---

UT 1910
AR Accorsi R, 2019, SUSTAIN FOOD SUPPLY CHAINS PLAN DES CONTROL INTERDISCIP
   METHODOL, P351, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-12-813411-5.00024-7
TI Recipe-driven methods for the design and management of food catering
   production systems
AU Accorsi R; Garbellini F; Giavolucci F; Manzini R; Tufano A
TC 4
SO SUSTAIN FOOD SUPPLY CHAINS PLAN DES CONTROL INTERDISCIP METHODOL
PY 2019
AB the food catering industry provides ready to eat meals to consumers who eat
   away from their homes at many heterogeneous points of demand , for example ,
   schools , hospitals , and company canteens . given the number of consumers
   served , many diets , tastes , and expectations must be satisfied , and this
   fact enlarges the variability and complexity of the menus , made from many
   hundreds of recipes . such complexity also affects the production process
   and results in a specific organization of the production system and the
   associated logistic activities . first , the whole production needs to be
   organized in agreement with the sequence of processing tasks of the recipes
   , in a typical job shop system . second , the details regarding the raw
   ingredients , work in progress ( wip ) , and finished products of each
   recipe can be used to set the hierarchy of processing tasks and to support
   production scheduling accordingly . however , the lack of knowledge and data
   relating to the task sequence beyond the recipes limits the implementation
   of adequate food catering production processes and control systems . this
   chapter deals with the organization of production activities in a food
   catering facility and introduces a methodology for the design of accurate
   task sequences for each recipe starting from the bill of materials of the
   recipes ingredients . the deliverable of the proposed method is the
   hierarchy of the processing / handling / packing task necessary for each
   recipe , which could be quickly implemented in a spreadsheet or management
   software for the scheduling of the production activities . specifically , an
   algorithm is defined to provide a graph of the task priority according to
   precedence constraints , and a data architecture illustrated to store the
   resulting working cycle . finally , this chapter discusses the potential
   application of such methods in the food catering industry in agreement with
   the expected growth of food service demand and the standardization of
   production
DE bill-of-materials; catering systems; food industry 40; food processing; job-
   shop; production scheduling

---

UT 1911
AR Raheem D, 2024, FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM,
   P121, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-15516-1.00007-4
TI Robotics as key enabler technology in Food Industry 4.0 and beyond
AU Raheem D; Treiblmaier H; Mohammed WM; Ferrer BR; Martinez-Lastra JL
TC 5
SO FOOD IND 40 EMERG TRENDS TECHNOL SUSTAIN FOOD PROD CONSUM
PY 2024
AB robotic technology is on the rise and is predicted to enhance sustainability
   in agrifood systems . in this chapter , we highlight the importance of
   robotic handling in the food system from various perspectives . robotics as
   a key enabling technology in food industry 4.0 is expected to revolutionize
   the processing , handling , and distribution of agrifoods . the internet of
   things enables technologies to be more flexible and to produce small batches
   more efficiently . this chapter also illustrates the application of robotics
   with practical examples . to achieve sustainable production and consumption
   processes , we suggest to better exploit synergies between artificial
   intelligence , drones , and sensors and strengthen the collaboration between
   humans and robots
DE cobot; digital technology; drones; food industry; industry 40; robotics

---

UT 1912
AR He J/1, 2026, J TRANSP GEOGR, V133, DOI 10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2026.104650
TI Context-dependent impact of built environment on on-demand meal delivery
   usage: Unveiling the role of online-offline integrated accessibility
AU He J/1; Zhang H/5; Dong H; Jin Y/2; Zhang Y/3
TC 0
SO J TRANSP GEOGR
PY 2026
AB global expansion of on demand meal delivery ( odmd ) enhances food access
   flexibility yet generates dietary and environmental externalities . built
   environment ( be ) interventions are crucial for balancing these benefits
   and costs , yet their effectiveness hinges on addressing the uncertain
   geographic context problem ( ugcop ) . since subjective decision making and
   travel are indispensable for accessing limited food resources , existing
   demand oriented approaches merely capture passive exposure to the
   environment encountered during daily mobility , deviating from ' truly
   causally relevant ' geographic context . taking tianjin , china as a case
   study , this research defined the supply oriented context as the spatial
   food environment , and delineated contextual units based on the online
   offline integrated accessibility using bivariate moran s i . to identify the
   intervenable targets and their associated contextual units , marginal
   effects of be factors on both aggregate and individual odmd usage frequency
   were quantified by the light gradient boosting machine ( lightgbm ) model
   with shapley additive explanations ( shap ) , and contextual heterogeneity
   was identified using kruskal wallis test . to further unravel driving
   mechanisms of the underlying context effect , the hodges lehmann estimator
   was employed . key findings include : ( 1 ) be impacts exert significant
   contextual heterogeneity , which are markedly stronger at the individual
   level . ( 2 ) compound channel positive synergy dominates most be factors
   impacts , outperforming single channel dominance . ( 3 ) spatial food
   environment s moderating effect converts objective be resources into
   perceived accessibility , core to the context mechanism . by mitigating
   ugcop from the supply side , this study advances interdisciplinary
   understanding of built environment digital food system interactions ,
   providing a framework to align odmd with sustainable , equitable urban
   mobility
DE built environment; context effect; food environment; geographic context; on-
   demand meal delivery usage; online-offline integrated accessibility

---

UT 1913
AR Gupta S/2, 2025, BIOTECHNOL INNOV SUSTAIN HUNGER, P242, DOI
   10.1201/9781032678122-18
TI Automation and robotics in food processing
AU Gupta S/2; Ghoshal G
TC 0
SO BIOTECHNOL INNOV SUSTAIN HUNGER
PY 2025
AB there is a noteworthy surge in governmental , consumer , and academic
   interest in the food processing sector due to the growing desire for more
   nutritious and superior quality food items . the journey of food , from farm
   to fork , has evolved into a complex sector . addressing the challenges that
   hinder food sustainability , security , and the growth of the human
   population is of utmost concern . these challenges include the problems of
   food waste , food loss , and the emergence of new diseases . the advent of
   food quality 4.0 technologies has brought forth a significant transformation
   in the food industry , paving the way for sustainable development . through
   extensive digitalization and automation , these cutting edge technologies
   have revolutionized food analysis , marking a new era in the field . these
   technologies ( artificial intelligence , internet of things , information
   and communication technology , machine learning , blockchain ) are being
   extensively utilized in smart farms and smart food factories , resulting in
   enhanced outcomes for the food system . automation , particularly robotics ,
   is increasingly recognized as valuable by businesses due to its crucial
   contribution to process improvement . the methods of machine learning are
   used for different food processing tasks , including drying , frying ,
   baking , canning , extrusion , encapsulation , and fermentation . this
   chapter offers an overview of automation techniques . additionally , it
   offers a glimpse into the implementation of these methods across various
   areas of food processing . several challenges must be overcome despite
   advancements in robotics and automation technologies to meet the growing
   need for automation in the food industry . in addition , it underscores the
   potential growth and possibilities for further advancement in its
   development . the implementation of automation in the industry has been
   determined to reduce the need for human operators . in conclusion , we
   propose future avenues that hold promising potential in addressing these
   challenges , ultimately aiding the advancement of automation in the food
   industry . 2026 sakshi gupta , gargi ghoshal
ID engineering education; food industry; food security; food waste; learning
   systems; machine learning; processed foods; robotics; thermal processing (
   foods ); cutting edge technology; food analysis; food industries; food loss;
   food quality; food waste; human population; internet of things technologies;
   machine learning; waste food; population statistics

---

UT 1914
AR Sarawathi P, 2025, INT CONF ADV ELECTRON COMMUN ENG AECE, P23, DOI
   10.1109/AECE67531.2025.11386588
TI IoT-Based Smart Food Spoilage Detection System Using Sensor Integration
AU Sarawathi P; Ishwarya K; Gayathri R; Alagupriya K; Kabila Sri K; Divya V
TC 0
SO INT CONF ADV ELECTRON COMMUN ENG AECE
PY 2025
AB food spoilage is one of the major concerns that not only does it create a
   lot of waste but it is seriously hazardous to health . novel food spoilage
   detection is proposed in this paper . system using iot and sensor
   integration . an esp8266 , commonly known as nodemcu , forms the heart of
   the entire system . interfacing is done with the mq135 gas sensor for the
   detection of spoilage gasses , a dht22 sensor to measure temperature and
   humidity , and a tcs3200 color sensor that it detects any change in color of
   food items . real time wireless data transmission allows the user to monitor
   , in real time , the condition of food from any distance . experimental
   results showed the high accuracy of this cost effective and scalable
   approach to the detection of spoilage in food items
DE esp8266; food spoilage detection; iot; sensor integration; smart food system
ID chemical sensors; cost effectiveness; integration; spoilage; detection
   system; esp8266; food spoilage; food spoilage detection; food system; iot;
   novel foods; real- time; sensor integration; smart food system; internet of
   things

---

UT 1915
AR Brar DS, 2024, J FOOD PROCESS ENG, V47, DOI 10.1111/jfpe.14762
TI Application of Image-Based Features and Machine Learning Models to Detect
   Brick Powder Adulteration in Red Chili Powder
AU Brar DS; Singh B/2; Nanda V
TC 16
SO J FOOD PROCESS ENG
PY 2024
AB this study has introduced a novel methodology for detecting brick powder (
   bp ) adulteration in red chili powder ( rcp . variety : bullet lanka 5 ) by
   strengthening advanced digital image processing techniques . specifically ,
   this approach integrated color space histogram and texture features ,
   subsequently refined through z score normalization and followed by the
   infinite latent feature selection ( inlfs ) method . by combining these
   innovative image based techniques with machine learning ( ml ) algorithms ,
   this research sets a standard for ensuring the safety and authenticity of
   rcp . the digital image based dataset consisting of images of pure and
   adulterated rcp with bp at various concentrations , is used to extract the
   features for the evaluation of models . three histograms ( i . e . , ycbcr ,
   rgb , and lab ) and texture feature models ( i . e . , glcm , gldm , and
   glrm ) are extracted from each image . subsequently , the inlfs model is
   employed to identify the most desirable features for the extracted histogram
   and texture features , which are further trained on the ml models to
   evaluate the existence and extent of bp adulteration in rcp . the regression
   model has given a higher coefficient of determination ( r2 ) of 0.99 when
   using exponential gaussian process regression ( gpr ) trained on lab color
   space histogram features , with corresponding rmse , mse , and mae values of
   2.14 , 12.21 , and 1.08 , respectively . meanwhile , the subspace knn
   classifier , with sf c texture lab hist , has achieved an accuracy of 99.31
   % . therefore , the findings of this study underscore the potential
   applications of digital image based feature extraction in combination with
   ml models to ensure the safety and authenticity of rcp
DE ai-technology; feature selection; food industry 40; green analyzes; machine
   learning
ID adversarial machine learning; feature selection; image texture;
   photointerpretation; rgb color model; ai technologies; brick powders; chili
   powders; features selection; food industries; food industry 40; green
   analyze; machine learning models; machine learning; red chillies; brick

---

UT 1916
AR Concepcion R II, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV,
   P627, DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00042-4
TI Internet of Things integration and smart technologies in food systems
AU Concepcion R II; Bonto A; Agulto R; Ann Bautista MG; Alipio M; Bandala A;
   Mohamad R; Francisco K; Baun JJ; Seagan CG; Cadavero LS; Basilla-Bongay C
TC 0
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB integrating the internet of things ( iot ) and smart technologies has
   revolutionized the food industry , completely changing the supply chain from
   production to consumption . this chapter explores the dynamic landscape of
   iot applications in smart and precision agriculture , livestock health
   management , fertigation systems , supply chain management , and food
   quality control and safety . the evolution and trends within these domains
   are explored , highlighting the transformative impact of iot in enhancing
   agricultural practices for optimal yield and resource utilization . the
   development of food systems , sustainability , and efficiency greatly
   benefits from using smart technologies . this chapter emphasizes the
   significance of iot in food production , processing , manufacturing ,
   packaging , storage , and ensuring food safety and quality . furthermore ,
   this chapter explores customer interaction through smart retail initiatives
   , emphasizing transparency and trust building in the food supply chain .
   this leads to improved food safety and waste elimination and enhanced supply
   chain planning , automation , and analytics . although incorporating iot
   into food systems offers substantial benefits , it presents certain
   challenges , including robust cybersecurity , inefficient data sharing and
   communication , reliable infrastructure , and network connectivity . this
   chapter examines the pertinent issues with security and privacy concerns
   associated with the vast amount of data generated and exchanged .
   additionally , it explores the complexities of interoperability among
   diverse iot devices and systems , emphasizing the need for standardized
   protocols to ensure seamless integration . the latter section of this
   chapter outlines future directions for iot integration in food systems ,
   highlighting security and privacy challenges . it calls for collaborative
   efforts to establish consistent industry standards supporting data integrity
   and interoperability . overall , the chapter provides a comprehensive
   overview of the current state , challenges , and potential avenues for
   further research in integrating iot and intelligent technologies in the
   dynamic landscape of food systems , improving waste reduction , and ensuring
   food security for all
DE digital food system; food supply chain; smart agriculture
ID data privacy; data sharing; food safety; food security; food storage; food
   supply; food waste; integration; precision agriculture; smart agriculture;
   supply chain management; supply chains; sustainable development; digital
   food system; food industries; food supply chain; food system; food safety;
   integration technologies; internet of things technologies; security and
   privacy; smart agricultures; smart technology; digital storage

---

UT 1917
AR Khan PW, 2020, SENSORS, V20, DOI 10.3390/s20102990
TI IoT-blockchain enabled optimized provenance system for food industry 4.0
   using advanced deep learning
AU Khan PW; Byun Y-C; Park N
TC 289
SO SENSORS
PY 2020
AB agriculture and livestock play a vital role in social and economic stability
   . food safety and transparency in the food supply chain are a significant
   concern for many people . internet of things ( iot ) and blockchain are
   gaining attention due to their success in versatile applications . they
   generate a large amount of data that can be optimized and used efficiently
   by advanced deep learning ( adl ) techniques . the importance of such
   innovations from the viewpoint of supply chain management is significant in
   different processes such as for broadened visibility , provenance ,
   digitalization , disintermediation , and smart contracts . this article
   takes the secure iotblockchain data of industry 4.0 in the food sector as a
   research object . using adl techniques , we propose a hybrid model based on
   recurrent neural networks ( rnn ) . therefore , we used long short term
   memory ( lstm ) and gated recurrent units ( gru ) as a prediction model and
   genetic algorithm ( ga ) optimization jointly to optimize the parameters of
   the hybrid model . we select the optimal training parameters by ga and
   finally cascade lstm with gru . we evaluated the performance of the proposed
   system for a different number of users . this paper aims to help supply
   chain practitioners to take advantage of the state of the art technologies .
   it will also help the industry to make policies according to the predictions
   of adl
DE advanced deep learning; blockchain; industry 40; internet of things;
   livestock; provenance
ID blockchain; deep learning; food industry; food supply; humans; internet of
   things; agricultural robots; agriculture; blockchain; food supply; genetic
   algorithms; industry 40; internet of things; long short-term memory; supply
   chain management; economic stability; food industries; genetic algorithm
   optimizations; internet of things ( iot ); optimal training; prediction
   model; recurrent neural network ( rnn ); state of the art technology;
   catering service; food industry; human; deep learning

---

UT 1918
AR Ababou M, 2023, SUSTAIN, V15, DOI 10.3390/su15118812
TI A Bibliometric Analysis of the Literature on Food Industry Supply Chain
   Resilience: Investigating Key Contributors and Global Trends
AU Ababou M; Chelh S; Elhiri M
TC 21
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2023
AB purpose : in light of ongoing challenges such as climate change , pandemics
   , and globalization , it is critical to have resilient food industry supply
   chains that can operate effectively in uncertain conditions . this study
   aims to contribute to this effort by investigating current trends and
   developments in the area of food industry supply chain resilience and
   identifying potential areas for improvement . design / methodology /
   approach : we conducted a comprehensive bibliometric analysis of 122
   articles published between 2008 and 2023 , utilizing multiple quantitative
   measures such as bibliographic coupling and keyword co occurrence network
   analysis . findings : our study identifies five distinct clusters of
   research on food industry supply chain resilience . we found that food
   systems resilience and public health is the most extensively studied aspect
   , indicating the importance of ensuring that our food supply chains are
   capable of withstanding disruptions to maintain public health . the other
   four clustersseafood supply chain resilience and risk management . digital
   and sustainable food systems . agri food industry 4.0 and sustainability .
   and meat production and the food industryeach represent important areas for
   future research and development . originality : to our knowledge , this is
   the first study that uses a bibliometric approach to analyze the resilience
   of food supply chain systems . by doing so , we provide a unique and
   original contribution to the existing literature on food supply chain
   systems , as prior bibliometric analyzes have not specifically focused on
   the resilience aspect . practical implications : our findings highlight the
   need for continued research and development in the area of food industry
   supply chain resilience . by identifying the most pressing areas for
   improvement and future research , our study can help inform policy decisions
   and guide industry efforts to create more resilient food supply chains that
   can adapt to changing conditions
DE bibliometric analysis; food supply chain; resilience; risk management
ID bibliography; food industry; food supply; global perspective; public health;
   research and development; risk assessment; supply chain management

---

UT 1919
AR Kant V, 2026, PROC IEEE INT CONF INTERDISCIP APPROACHES TECHNOL MANAG SOC
   INNOV IATMSI, DOI 10.1109/IATMSI68868.2026.11465558
TI Deep Learning-Based Convolutional Neural Network Approach for Smart
   Automated Classification and Sorting of Vegetables
AU Kant V; Chythanya KR; Sharma N/1; Semwal P; Ahmed A
TC 0
SO PROC IEEE INT CONF INTERDISCIP APPROACHES TECHNOL MANAG SOC INNOV IATMSI
PY 2026
AB the classification of vegetables plays a critical role in modern agriculture
   , food supply chains , and smart farming practices . accurately
   identification of plants like vegetables apart is key for automating the
   classification , ensuring safe food and helping the environment . this
   project introduces a cnn type of model based on deep learning to aid in
   correctly classifying bean , bitter guard , bottle guard , brinjal ,
   broccoli , cabbage , capsicum , carrot , cauliflower and cucumber . twelve
   thousand images , each representing one class , were collected from kaggle
   and organized into training , validation and testing subsets containing 70 %
   , 20 % and 10 % of images , respectively . to make the cnn perform and
   generalize better , both dropout layers and max pooling were used to improve
   the underlying structure . high accuracy of 99 % was found in the
   experimental results and the precision , recall and f1-scores for all
   classes were consistently above 0.98. loss and accuracy plots indicated that
   my model converged smoothly without strongly overfitting . looking at the
   confusion matrix , we observed that the model performed well , because the
   main spots on the matrix were black and other spots were small and scattered
   . it backs the objectives of the sustainable development goals by supporting
   food security , good health , advancements in industry , responsible
   purchases , infrastructure and actions against climate change through
   enhanced food processing and supply methods . this research confirms that
   the model can be used in automated vegetable sorting , development of
   agricultural technologies and smart food systems , boosting precision
   agriculture and digital security of food
DE agriculture automation; cnn; computer vision; convolutional neural network;
   deep learning; image classification; kaggle dataset; precision farming;
   smart farming; vegetable classification
ID agricultural technology; automation; classification ( of information );
   convolution; convolutional neural networks; food processing; food security;
   food supply; network security; precision agriculture; purchasing; screening;
   smart agriculture; sorting; vegetables; agriculture automation; automated
   classification; automated sorting; convolutional neural network; deep
   learning; images classification; kaggle dataset; precision farming; smart
   farming; vegetable classification; computer vision; deep learning; image
   classification

---

UT 1920
AR Yin B, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14111973
TI AI-Powered Innovations in Food Safety from Farm to Fork
AU Yin B; Tan G; Muhammad R; Liu J/7; Bi J
TC 31
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence is comprehensively transforming the food safety
   governance system by integrating modern technologies and building
   intelligent control systems that provide rapid solutions for the entire food
   supply chain from farm to fork . this article systematically reviews the
   core applications of ai in the orbit of food safety . first , in the
   production and quality control of primary food sources , the integration of
   spectral data with ai efficiently identifies pest and disease , food
   spoilage , and pesticide and veterinary drug residues . secondly , during
   food processing , sensors combined with machine learning algorithms are
   utilized to ensure regulatory compliance and monitor production parameters .
   ai also works together with blockchain to build an immutable and end point
   traceability system . furthermore , multi source data fusion can provide
   personalized nutrition and dietary recommendations . the integration of ai
   technologies with traditional food detection methods has significantly
   improved the accuracy and sensitivity of food analytical methods . finally ,
   in the future , to address the increasing food safety issues , food industry
   4.0 will expand the application of ai with lightweight edge computing ,
   multi modal large models , and global data sharing to create a more
   intelligent , adaptive and flexible food safety system
DE ai; food safety; from farm to fork; full chain; rapid detection

---

UT 1921
AR Chen Z/1, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15030443
TI An Improved Diffusion Model for Generating Images of a Single Category of
   Food on a Small Dataset
AU Chen Z/1; Xiao Z; Wu D/1; Sang Q
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB in the era of the digital food economy , high fidelity food images are
   critical for applications ranging from visual e commerce presentation to
   automated dietary assessment . however , developing robust computer vision
   systems for food analysis is often hindered by data scarcity for long tail
   or regional dishes . to address this challenge , we propose a novel high
   fidelity food image synthesis framework as an effective data augmentation
   tool . unlike generic generative models , our method introduces an
   ingredient aware diffusion model based on the masked diffusion transformer (
   maskdit ) architecture . specifically , we design a label and ingredients
   encoding ( lie ) module and a cross attention ( ca ) mechanism to explicitly
   model the relationship between food composition and visual appearance ,
   simulating the ' cooking ' process digitally . furthermore , to stabilize
   training on limited data samples , we incorporate a linear interpolation
   strategy into the diffusion process . extensive experiments on the food 101
   and vireofood 172 datasets demonstrate that our method achieves state of the
   art generation quality even in data scarce scenarios . crucially , we
   validate the practical utility of our synthetic images : utilizing them for
   data augmentation improved the accuracy of downstream food classification
   tasks from 95.65 % to 96.20 % . this study provides a cost effective
   solution for generating diverse , controllable , and realistic food data to
   advance smart food systems
DE diffusion models; food image generation; linear interpolation; masked
   training
ID accuracy; article; computer vision; controlled study; cooking; diffusion;
   encoding; food; food analysis; food classification; food composition;
   generative model; image processing; image reconstruction; nonhuman;
   nutritional assessment; simulation; synthesis; velocity

---

UT 1922
AR Gaurav A, 2026, GREEN TECHNOL SUSTAIN, V4, DOI 10.1016/j.grets.2025.100257
TI AI-driven lightweight CNN model for sustainable vegetable classification in
   smart food systems
AU Gaurav A; Pan VS-H; Arya V; Raman R; Gupta BB; Chui KT
TC 5
SO GREEN TECHNOL SUSTAIN
PY 2026
AB the increasing need for sustainable and environmentally friendly
   technological solutions in agriculture requires ai approaches that are both
   precise and computationally efficient . in this context , this study
   introduces a lightweight ai driven convolutional neural network ( cnn ) that
   is designed for sustainable vegetable classification within intelligent food
   systems . the model is characterized by a compact architecture that
   incorporates convolutional layers for spatial feature extraction and squeeze
   and excitation ( se ) blocks for adaptive channel wise attention . it
   achieves a high classification accuracy of 98 % while maintaining a minimal
   computational burden with only 0.39 million parameters and 15.63 gflops .
   compared to deeper models such as resnet18 and googlenet , the proposed
   model demonstrates superior efficiency and faster inference . its low power
   consumption and real time processing capabilities make it particularly
   suitable for implementation in resource limited , environmentally friendly
   agricultural settings
DE green ais; lightweight cnn; smart food systems; squeeze-and-excitation;
   sustainable agriculture; vegetable classification
ID classification ( of information ); convolutional neural networks; energy
   efficiency; intelligent systems; smart agriculture; sustainable agriculture;
   vegetables; convolutional neural network; food system; green ai; lightweight
   convolutional neural network; neural network model; smart food system;
   squeeze-and-excitation; sustainable agriculture; technological solution;
   vegetable classification; convolution

---

UT 1923
AR Lerfall J, 2025, SEAF 40 DIGIT PHYS BIOL INNOV SEA TABLE, P31, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-33750-5.00007-X
TI Role of food industry 4.0 in enhancing seafood sustainability
AU Lerfall J; Hassoun A
TC 1
SO SEAF 40 DIGIT PHYS BIOL INNOV SEA TABLE
PY 2025
AB this chapter explores the transformative potential of food industry 4.0
   technologies in advancing seafood sustainability . the global seafood sector
   faces critical challenges , including overfishing , habitat destruction ,
   and climate change , necessitating innovative solutions to achieve
   environmental , economic , and social sustainability . key industry 4.0
   technologies such as blockchain , artificial intelligence ( ai ) , the
   internet of things ( iot ) , and big data analytics are examined for their
   role in optimizing resource management , enhancing traceability , and
   reducing seafood waste . the chapter highlights advancements in aquaculture
   systems , fisheries , and innovations in seafood processing and packaging .
   while these technologies offer substantial benefits , barriers such as high
   initial costs , technical expertise , and regulatory hurdles must be
   addressed . by integrating these technologies with sustainable practices ,
   the seafood sector can achieve resilience , transparency , and efficiency ,
   contributing to the global transition toward sustainable food systems . 2026
   elsevier inc . all rights reserved . .
DE digital transformation; food industry 40; seafood technology; smart
   fisheries; sustainable aquaculture; sustainable development
ID big data; climate change; environmental technology; fisheries; food
   industry; information management; internet of things; meats; critical
   challenges; digital transformation; environmental economics; food
   industries; food industry 40; habitat destruction; innovative solutions;
   seafood technology; smart fishery; sustainable aquaculture; sustainable
   development

---

UT 1924
AR Hassoun A, 2023, J FOOD ENG, V337, DOI 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2022.111216
TI Food quality 4.0: From traditional approaches to digitalized automated
   analysis
AU Hassoun A; Jagtap S; Garcia-Garcia G; Trollman H/1; Pateiro M; Lorenzo JM;
   Trif M; Rusu AV; Aadil RM; Šimat V; Cropotova J; Câmara JS
TC 180
SO J FOOD ENG
PY 2023
AB food quality has recently received considerable attention from governments ,
   researchers , and consumers due to the increasing demand for healthier and
   more nutritious food products . traditionally , food quality is determined
   using a range of destructive and time consuming approaches with modest
   analytical performance , underscoring the urgent need to develop novel
   analytical techniques . the fourth industrial revolution ( called industry
   4.0 ) is progressing exponentially , driven by the advent of a range of
   digital technologies and other innovative technological advances . ' food
   quality 4.0 ' is a new concept referring to the use of industry 4.0
   technologies in food analysis to achieve rapid , reliable , and objective
   assessment of food quality . in this review , we will first discuss the
   fundamentals and principles of food industry 4.0 technologies and their
   connections with the food quality 4.0 concept . then , the most common
   techniques used to determine food quality will briefly be reviewed before
   highlighting the advancements made in analytical techniques to assess food
   quality in the era of industry 4.0. food quality 4.0 is characterized by
   growing digitalization and automation of food analysis using the most
   advanced technologies in the food industry . key aspects of food quality 4.0
   , including , among others , non destructive fingerprinting techniques ,
   omics technologies and bioinformatics tools , artificial intelligence and
   big data , have great potential to revolutionize food quality . although
   most of these technologies are still under development , it is anticipated
   that future research will overcome current limitations for large scale
   applications
DE artificial intelligence; automation; big data; digitalization; food;
   industry 40; omics; quality; smart sensors; spectroscopy
ID artificial intelligence; automation; big data; food products; quality
   control; omics; analytical performance; automated analysis; digitalization;
   food analysis; food industries; food quality; industrial revolutions;
   quality; traditional approaches; industry 40

---

UT 1925
AR Ogidi OI, 2024, FOOD SAF QUAL GLOB SOUTH, P197, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-2428-4_7
TI Emerging technologies in the Global South food industry: Prospects and
   challenges
AU Ogidi OI; Izah SC
TC 16
SO FOOD SAF QUAL GLOB SOUTH
PY 2024
AB currently , our globe is experiencing unparalleled but linked environmental
   , societal , and economic challenges resulting from climate change ,
   industrialization , pandemics , and conflicts , among other factors .
   ensuring food safety is an utmost priority that goes beyond national
   boundaries and has a global impact on individuals health and overall welfare
   . nevertheless , the methods and endeavors necessary to guarantee food
   safety in the global south must be customized to address its distinct
   difficulties and circumstances . the global south necessitates a unique set
   of endeavors that are based on fairness and cater to the requirements of
   these countries . considering this , a multitude of cutting edge digital
   technologies , including artificial intelligence , big data , the internet
   of things , blockchain , and 3d printing , are being more and more utilized
   in smart farms and smart food factories to enhance the results of the food
   system . the promise for efficient digital and ecological transitions can be
   realized through the increasing acceptance of vegetal advances and the
   utilization of industry 4.0 technology throughout the food supply chain in
   the global south . by adopting a strategy that prioritizes these cutting
   edge digital technologies , the countries in the global south can establish
   the foundation for a more secure and improved food future for their people .
   therefore , this chapter examines many highly promising developing
   technologies in the food business , along with the challenges that must be
   surmounted to fully exploit their potential in the global south
DE 3d printing; artificial intelligence; big data; blockchain; food; industry;
   internet of things

---

UT 1926
AR Rathod RK, 2025, J MEAT SCI, V20, P81, DOI 10.48165/jms.2025.20.01.9
TI Applications of Hyperspectral Imaging in Meat Quality and Safety Evaluation
AU Rathod RK; Biswas AK; Mandal PK; Lalthanmawii J; Mandhale S
TC 0
SO J MEAT SCI
PY 2025
AB meat products are highly susceptible to safety and quality issues due to
   their complex structure , diverse processing techniques , and intricate
   supply chains . traditional analytical methods for assessing meat quality
   are often time consuming , labor intensive , and destructive , making them
   unsuitable for real time quality control in modern food production
   environments . hyperspectral imaging ( hsi ) , an emerging non destructive
   and rapid analytical technology , integrates imaging and spectroscopy to
   detect both physical and chemical attributes of meat . this review provides
   a comprehensive overview of the current applications and research
   developments of hsi in meat quality and safety evaluation . it explores the
   potential of hsi in detecting microbiological contamination , assessing
   quality parameters , and enhancing traceability throughout the supply chain
   . furthermore , it evaluates the advancements in hsi hardware and software ,
   and their readiness for integration into industrial settings under the
   framework of food industry 4.0. the future prospects of hsi for predictive
   and real time quality control , enabling large scale , automated meat
   inspection systems , are also discussed . this review highlights hsi as a
   promising tool that can shift the meat industry from reactive to proactive
   quality assurance practices . copyright indian meat science association
DE hyperspectral imaging; meat quality; meat safety; quality assurance; rapid
   analytical technology

---

UT 1927
AR Xhani D, 2025, INTELL SYST APPL, V27, DOI 10.1016/j.iswa.2025.200547
TI The Role and Applications of Semantic Interoperability Tools and eXplainable
   AI in the Development of Smart Food Systems: Findings from a Systematic
   Literature Review
AU Xhani D; Sedrakyan G; Gavai A; Guizzardi R; van Hillegersberg J
TC 1
SO INTELL SYST APPL
PY 2025
AB smart food systems generate vast and diverse data across the supply chain ,
   yet inconsistent data structures and limited interoperability hinder their
   full potential . achieving semantic interoperability , where systems can
   exchange and interpret data with shared meaning , is essential for enabling
   intelligent integration and decision making . tools such as ontologies ,
   knowledge graphs , and reasoning engines play a key role in this process .
   in this paper , we refer to these as semantic interoperability ( si ) tools
   : a broad category that includes technologies grounded in semantic web
   standards ( e . g . , rdf , owl , sparql ) but emphasizes their applied role
   in aligning meaning across heterogeneous systems . coupled with explainable
   artificial intelligence ( xai ) , these technologies enhance transparency
   and trust in ai driven decisions , such as personalized food recommendations
   tailored to an individual s health conditions and preferences . this paper
   presents a systematic literature review ( slr ) examining the role of
   semantic interoperability tools and xai in the development of smart food
   systems . through an analysis of 39 studies , the review identifies key
   semantic technologies and xai methods used in food systems , with a focus on
   their application in intelligent food recommendation systems . the findings
   reveal that while significant progress has been made , current systems often
   lack adequate transparency and personalization , limiting user trust and
   engagement . to address these gaps , the paper proposes the integration of
   semantic interoperability tools with xai to create smarter , more reliable
   food systems . as part of this effort , the paper introduces the conceptual
   model for the semantic explainable food recommendation ontology ( sefro ) ,
   a work in progress ontology , designed to connect entities and relationships
   within food systems in an intelligent manner , with the goal of enabling
   personalized , explainable , and interoperable food recommendations that
   meet the growing demands for smart food systems
DE explainable ai; food; ontology; recommender system; semantic
   interoperability
ID artificial intelligence; decision making; food products; interoperability;
   recommender systems; reviews; semantic web; transparency; decisions makings;
   explainable ai; food system; inconsistent data; intelligent decisions;
   intelligent integration; knowledge graphs; ontologys; semantic
   interoperability; systematic literature review; ontology

---

UT 1928
AR Amato G, 2017, SIGIR - PROC INT ACM SIGIR CONF RES DEV RETR, P1333, DOI
   10.1145/3077136.3084142
TI Social media image recognition for food trend analysis
AU Amato G; Bolettieri P; De Lira VM; Muntean CI; Perego R; Renso C
TC 29
SO SIGIR - PROC INT ACM SIGIR CONF RES DEV RETR
PY 2017
AB an increasing number of people share their thoughts and the images of their
   lives on social media platforms . people are exposed to food in their
   everyday lives and share on line what they are eating by means of photos
   taken to their dishes . the hashtag # foodporn is constantly among the
   popular hashtags in twitter and food photos are the second most popular
   subject in instagram after selfies . the system that we propose ,
   worldfoodmap , captures the stream of food photos from social media and ,
   thanks to a cnn food image classifier , identifies the categories of food
   that people are sharing . by collecting food images from the twitter stream
   and associating food category and location to them , worldfoodmap permits to
   investigate and interactively visualize the popularity and trends of the
   shared food all over the world
DE deep neural network; food image recognition; social media streaming
ID deep neural networks; image recognition; information retrieval; media
   streaming; exposed to; food image; food trends; hashtags; number of peoples;
   social media; social media platforms; social networking ( online )

---

UT 1929
AR Atan RM, 2026, INNOV FOOD SCI OPPOR CHALLENGES FUTUR DIR, P121, DOI
   10.1201/9781003598633-8
TI Technological Innovations and Disruptions in the Food Industry
AU Atan RM; Arslan S
TC 0
SO INNOV FOOD SCI OPPOR CHALLENGES FUTUR DIR
PY 2026
AB food systems are struggling to meet growing food demand due to the
   convergence of many global issues . in recent years , significant
   technological advances have been made to address the complex and
   multifaceted challenges facing the food industry . industry 4.0 components
   such as artificial intelligence ( ai ) , blockchain , robotic systems , and
   smart sensors are revolutionizing food production processes by increasing
   efficiency , reducing costs , and optimizing operational workflows .
   continuous advancements in next generation technologies are enabling rapid
   progress in the transition from traditional food production to precision
   production and smart food factories . however , despite these advancements ,
   various economic and social barriers hinder the widespread adoption of
   industry 4.0 technologies in the food sector . this section provides up to
   date information on the latest developments in the application of ai ,
   robotics , automation , and blockchain technologies in food science , as
   well as application challenges and future perspectives
ID food industry; intelligent robots; blockchain; food demand; food industries;
   food production; food system; global issues; production process; robotic
   systems; technological advances; technological innovation; industry 40

---

UT 1930
AR Azhar F, 2026, ARCH MICROBIOL, V208, DOI 10.1007/s00203-026-04919-1
TI CRISPR-based tools in food safety and microbiology: applications for
   pathogen detection and control
AU Azhar F; Mazhari BBZ; Ibrahim MN; Alanazi A; Islam F
TC 0
SO ARCH MICROBIOL
PY 2026
AB foodborne diseases have continued to pose serious health and economic
   challenges worldwide , especially in low and middle income countries with
   weak food safety systems . the traditional forms of detection are effective
   but time consuming and laborious , and may not be suitable for quick on site
   use . in this regard , crispr cas technology has become a revolutionary
   technology in food safety because it is highly specific , sensitive and
   programmable . this is a review of crispr based applications in food
   microbiology , with an emphasis on rapid pathogen detection methods and
   targeted microbial control . recent diagnostic advances in crispr based
   diagnostics , such as the addition of isothermal amplification , lateral
   flow assays , and biosensing platforms , have demonstrated fast , portable ,
   and cost effective methods for detecting foodborne pathogens . also , crispr
   mediated antimicrobial interventions , including programmed bacteriophages
   and gene targeting , provide effective control of pathogens and
   antimicrobial resistance . notably , this review also discusses the
   comparative advantages of various cas systems ( cas9 , cas12 , cas13 ) ,
   their industrial potential , and future opportunities to integrate them with
   smart technologies ( artificial intelligence and iot based monitoring
   systems ) . in summary , crispr technologies are a next generation approach
   to real time , accurate , and sustainable food quality management . they are
   well positioned to operate at an industrial scale , despite current
   regulatory and standardization issues . the author ( s ) , under exclusive
   license to springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2026 .
DE antimicrobial resistance; biosensors; crispr-cas systems; food microbiology;
   food safety; isothermal amplification; lateral flow assays; pathogen
   detection; smart food systems
ID antiinfective agent; antibiotic resistance; antimicrobial activity;
   artificial intelligence; bacteriophage; biosensor; clustered regularly
   interspaced short palindromic repeat; controlled study; crispr-cas system;
   food control; food poisoning; food quality; food safety; foodborne pathogen;
   gene targeting; germany; human; infectious agent; isothermal amplification;
   microbiology; microorganism detection; middle income country; nonhuman;
   pharmaceutics; review; total quality management; food

---

UT 1931
AR Adam E, 2026, SUSTAIN, V18, DOI 10.3390/su18073277
TI Optimizing Vineyard Sustainability for Climate-Smart Food Systems: An
   Integrated Carbon Footprint and DEA Approach
AU Adam E; Mavrommati A; Pliakoura A; Patakas A; Chatzitheodoridis F
TC 1
SO SUSTAIN
PY 2026
AB the sustainability of the wine sector depends on primary production
   practices and on the adaptability of plant material to climate change . this
   study evaluates the carbon footprint and technical efficiency of four grape
   varieties in paionia using an integrated life cycle assessment and data
   envelopment analysis framework . a cradle to gate approach was adopted ,
   with system boundaries extending from input production to harvest , and
   functional units of kg co2e / ha to capture input intensity and kg co2e / kg
   grape to assess product level environmental efficiency . the analysis
   included 82 vineyards , with dea scores ranging from 0.744 to 1.000. most
   vineyards operated below the efficiency frontier , and the input oriented
   vrs model identified potential input reductions without affecting output .
   merlot showed the highest footprint ( 3794.02 kg co2e / ha ) , followed by
   assyrtiko ( 2798.40 ) and xinomavro ( 2784.48 ) , while roditis had the
   lowest ( 1958.07 ) . on a per kg basis , emissions were 0.340 , 0.304 ,
   0.281 , and 0.143 kg co2e / kg respectively . the dea identified targeted
   input saving opportunities , including reduced irrigation needs in white
   varieties and lower nutrient and plant protection requirements in red
   varieties , while the strong performance of roditis highlights the
   advantages of locally adapted , low input plant material for improving
   efficiency
DE carbon footprint; climate adaptation; data envelopment; life cycle
   assessment; sustainable viticulture
ID carbon footprint; climate change; data envelopment analysis; life cycle
   analysis; primary production; spatio-temporal analysis; sustainability;
   technical efficiency; vineyard; viticulture

---

UT 1932
AR Khullar S, 2025, ASIAN CONF INTELL TECHNOL ACOIT, DOI
   10.1109/ACOIT66109.2025.11437033
TI Deep Learning-Based Convolutional Neural Network Approach for Smart
   Automated Classification and Sorting of Vegetables
AU Khullar S; Kumar D/1; Babu PR; Reddy SR; Periyasamy R; Sasi S
TC 0
SO ASIAN CONF INTELL TECHNOL ACOIT
PY 2025
AB the classification of vegetables plays a critical role in modern agriculture
   , food supply chains , and smart farming practices . accurately
   identification of plants like vegetables apart is key for automating the
   classification , ensuring safe food and helping the environment . this
   project introduces a cnn type of model based on deep learning to aid in
   correctly classifying bean , bitter guard , bottle guard , brinjal ,
   broccoli , cabbage , capsicum , carrot , cauliflower and cucumber . twelve
   thousand images , each representing one class , were collected from kaggle
   and organized into training , validation and testing subsets containing 70 %
   , 20 % and 10 % of images , respectively . to make the cnn perform and
   generalize better , both dropout layers and max pooling were used to improve
   the underlying structure . high accuracy of 99 % was found in the
   experimental results and the precision , recall and f1-scores for all
   classes were consistently above 0.98. loss and accuracy plots indicated that
   my model converged smoothly without strongly overfitting . looking at the
   confusion matrix , we observed that the model performed well , because the
   main spots on the matrix were black and other spots were small and scattered
   . it backs the objectives of the sustainable development goals by supporting
   food security , good health , advancements in industry , responsible
   purchases , infrastructure and actions against climate change through
   enhanced food processing and supply methods . this research confirms that
   the model can be used in automated vegetable sorting , development of
   agricultural technologies and smart food systems , boosting precision
   agriculture and digital security of food
DE agriculture automation; cnn; computer vision; convolutional neural network;
   deep learning; image classification; kaggle dataset; precision farming;
   smart farming; vegetable classification

---

UT 1933
AR Liu Z/2, 2025, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V158, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2025.104925
TI Integrating AI with detection methods, IoT, and blockchain to achieve food
   authenticity and traceability from farm-to-table
AU Liu Z/2; Yu X/2; Liu N/1; Liu C; Jiang A; Chen L/1
TC 63
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB background : ensuring the authenticity and traceability of food is
   fundamental to reducing food fraud , safeguarding public health , and
   fostering consumer trust cornerstones of global food safety . as food supply
   chains grow increasingly complex , artificial intelligence ( ai ) , in
   conjunction with the internet of things ( iot ) and blockchain , plays a
   pivotal role in enhancing detection accuracy , improving transparency , and
   addressing critical challenges in food traceability . scope and approach :
   this paper provided a comprehensive review of ai applications in food safety
   , focusing on spectroscopy , mass spectrometry , imaging , and sensor based
   detection . it also examined the integration of ai with iot and blockchain ,
   highlighting their potential in building safe , transparent , and scalable
   traceability frameworks . furthermore , the study explored how this
   integrated framework advanced food industry 4.0 , driving automation , real
   time monitoring , and interconnected supply chains . finally , the paper
   discussed current challenges and offered perspectives on advancing ai driven
   systems for food authenticity detection and traceability . key findings and
   conclusions : meanwhile , the convergence of ai , iot , and blockchain has
   facilitated cross platform compatibility and scalability , optimized supply
   chain data collection , and strengthened the security of traceability
   information . the rapid advancement of the ai iot blockchain framework is
   driving the evolution of food industry 4.0 , fostering advancements in high
   precision analysis , automation , cost effectiveness , and quality control ,
   thereby enhancing food safety and transparency
DE artificial intelligence; blockchain; food authenticity; food safety; food
   traceability; internet of things
ID blockchain; critical challenges; detection accuracy; detection methods; food
   authenticity; food industries; food supply chain; food traceabilitys; food
   safety; mass spectrometry imaging

---

UT 1934
AR Alsubai S, 2024, IEEE INTERNET THINGS J, V11, P30800, DOI
   10.1109/JIOT.2024.3413181
TI Decision-Tree-Assisted Intelligent Framework for Food Quality Analysis
AU Alsubai S; Alqahtani A; Alanazi A/1; Bhatia M/1
TC 5
SO IEEE INTERNET THINGS J
PY 2024
AB internet of things ( iot ) technology has revolutionized the industrial
   sector . this research article focuses on the development of food industry
   4.0 , which was made possible by advancements in edge cloud computing and
   iot technologies . the study presents an iot based smart framework that uses
   the bayesian belief network ( bbn ) on the edge cloud platform to analyze
   data in the food industry . the acquired data is assessed to estimate the
   probability of food quality ( pfq ) and evaluate food outlets using the food
   quality analysis measure ( fqam ) . additionally , a bi level decision tree
   modeling is presented to assess food quality . food oriented data security
   is ensured using blockchain . the proposed model is tested on a complex data
   set containing data about four restaurants with about 43 520 individual
   instances . simulations show effective results of temporal delay ( 94.41 s )
   , decision making efficacy ( 99.64 % ) , classification efficiency (
   precision ( 96.67 % ) , specificity ( 96.97 % ) , and sensitivity ( 97.55 %
   ) ) , stability ( 74.25 % ) , and reliability ( 93.70 % )
DE decision tree; food quality; internet of things ( iot )
ID bayesian networks; decision trees; quality control; temperature measurement;
   wireless sensor networks; cloud computing; edge clouds; food industries;
   food quality; food quality analysis; industrial sector; internet of things
   technologies; research papers; sensor phenomenon and characterizations;
   wireless communications; internet of things

---

UT 1935
AR Brar DS, 2025, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V146, DOI 10.1016/j.jfca.2025.107947
TI Application of deep learning and explainable artificial intelligence (XAI)
   for detecting red chilli powder adulteration
AU Brar DS; Singh B/2; Nanda V
TC 5
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2025
AB to tackle the challenge of red chili powder adulteration ( rcp ) , an
   artificial intelligence ( ai ) -based framework was proposed using empirical
   analysis of eight pre trained two dimensional convolutional neural network (
   2d cnn ) models for rcp adulteration detection . moreover , to enhance the
   convergence and performance of the proposed architecture , an optimiser
   adamclr is integrated with minimum and maximin learning rate of 0.00005 and
   0.01 , respectively . the rcp is categorized into two classes . c1_prcp
   includes pure rcp of jodhpuri ( jp ) variety , and class 2 ( c2_arcp )
   consists of various natural adulterants ( i . e . , wheat bran ( wb ) , rice
   hull ( rb ) , wood saw ( ws ) , three low grade varieties of rcp at the
   lowest concentration of 5 % ) . additionally , the model which outperforms
   corresponding architectures is further evaluated using explainable
   artificial intelligence ( xai ) technology . densenet_169 , trained at bs 64
   , delivers 97.99 % accuracy for detecting natural adulterants ( c2_arcp ) in
   high grade rcp ( c1_prcp ) . the xai model ( grad cam and lime ) explained
   the accurate adulteration prediction of the densnet_169 2d cnn model . the
   heat map obtained from both xai models illustrated the significant areas
   that explained the model s decision making . the proposed model effectively
   detects rcp adulteration and its applicability can be enhanced by increasing
   dataset diversity . overall , the integrated 2d cnn xai approach holds
   significant potential to revolutionize quality control and assurance in the
   food industry
DE adulteration; artificial intelligence; explainable artificial intelligence;
   food industry 40; red chili powder; two-dimensional convolutional neural
   network

---

UT 1936
AR Beri R, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1469 LNNS, P69, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-7807-5_7
TI Integrating Edge-Cloud Computing and IoT for Real-Time Food Quality
   Assessment
AU Beri R; Sachdeva P
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB the advent of iot technology has significantly transformed the industrial
   sector , paving the way for the emergence of food industry 4.0. this
   research explores the integration of edgecloud computing and iot to create a
   smart framework tailored for the food industry . central to this framework
   is the application of a bayesian belief network ( bbn ) on an edgecloud
   platform , enabling data driven insights into food quality . the framework
   assesses data to calculate the probability of food quality ( pfq ) and
   utilizes the food quality analysis measure ( fqam ) to evaluate food outlets
   . a bi level decision tree model further enhances the evaluation process by
   providing an in depth analysis of food quality metrics . to address concerns
   around data security , blockchain technology is implemented , ensuring the
   protection of food related information . the model is rigorously tested on a
   comprehensive dataset encompassing 43,520 instances from four restaurants .
   simulation results highlight its high performance , achieving a temporal
   delay of 96.43 s , and the system demonstrates an accuracy of 98.93 % ,
   showcasing its robustness in real world applications
DE food quality monitoring; iot-enabled food industry; smart food monitoring
ID barium compounds; bayesian networks; data quality; edge computing; food
   industry; food security; security of data; cloud computing; edge clouds;
   food industries; food quality; food quality monitoring; iot-enabled food
   industry; quality assessment; quality monitoring; real- time; smart food
   monitoring; quality control

---

UT 1937
AR Jambrak AR/1, 2021, APPL SCI, V11, P1, DOI 10.3390/app11020686
TI Internet of nonthermal food processing technologies (Iontp): Food industry
   4.0 and sustainability
AU Jambrak AR/1; Nutrizio M; Djekić I; Pleslić S; Chemat F
TC 154
SO APPL SCI
PY 2021
AB with the introduction of industry 4.0 , and smart factories accordingly ,
   there are new opportunities to implement elements of industry 4.0 in
   nonthermal processing . moreover , with application of internet of things (
   iot ) , smart control of the process , big data optimization , as well as
   sustainable production and monitoring , there is a new era of internet of
   nonthermal food processing technologies ( iontp ) . nonthermal technologies
   include high power ultrasound , pulsed electric fields , high voltage
   electrical discharge , high pressure processing , uv led , pulsed light , e
   beam , and advanced thermal food processing techniques include microwave
   processing , ohmic heating and high pressure homogenization . the aim of
   this review was to bring in front necessity to evaluate possibilities of
   implementing smart sensors , artificial intelligence ( ai ) , big data ,
   additive technologies with nonthermal technologies , with the possibility to
   create smart factories together with strong emphasis on sustainability .
   this paper brings an overview on digitalization , iot , additive
   technologies ( 3d printing ) , cloud data storage and smart sensors
   including two swot analysis associated with iontps and sustainability . it
   is of high importance to perform life cycle assessment ( lca ) , to quantify
   ( en ) -environmental dimension . ( so ) -social dimension and ( ec )
   -economic dimension . swot analysis showed : potential for energy saving
   during food processing . optimized overall environmental performance . lower
   manufacturing cost . development of eco friendly products . higher level of
   health and safety during food processing and better work condition for
   workers . nonthermal and advanced thermal technologies can be applied also
   as sustainable techniques working in line with the sustainable development
   goals ( sdgs ) and agenda 2030 issued by united nations ( un )
DE food industry 40; non-thermal food processing technologies; sustainability;
   sustainable development goals; swot analysis; zero emission

---

UT 1938
AR Hassoun A, 2024, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V23, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.70040
TI From Food Industry 4.0 to Food Industry 5.0: Identifying technological
   enablers and potential future applications in the food sector
AU Hassoun A; Jagtap S; Trollman H/1; Garcia-Garcia G; Duong LNK; Saxena P;
   Bouzembrak Y; Treiblmaier H; Parra‐López C; Carmona-Torres C; Dev K; Mhlanga
   D; Aït-Kaddour A
TC 96
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2024
AB although several food related fields have yet to fully grasp the speed and
   breadth of the fourth industrial revolution ( also known as industry 4.0 ) ,
   growing literature from other sectors shows that industry 5.0 ( referring to
   the fifth industrial revolution ) is already underway . food industry 4.0
   has been characterized by the fusion of physical , digital , and biological
   advances in food science and technology , whereas future food industry 5.0
   could be seen as a more holistic , multidisciplinary , and multidimensional
   approach . this review will focus on identifying potential enabling
   technologies of industry 5.0 that could be harnessed to shape the future of
   food in the coming years . we will review the state of the art studies on
   the use of innovative technologies in various food and agriculture
   applications over the last 5 years . in addition , opportunities and
   challenges will be highlighted , and future directions and conclusions will
   be drawn . preliminary evidence suggests that industry 5.0 is the outcome of
   an evolutionary process and not of a revolution , as is often claimed . our
   results show that regenerative and / or conversational artificial
   intelligence , the internet of everything , miniaturized and nanosensors ,
   4d printing and beyond , cobots and advanced drones , edge computing ,
   redactable blockchain , metaverse and immersive techniques , cyber physical
   systems , digital twins , and sixth generation wireless and beyond are
   likely to be among the main driving technologies of food industry 5.0.
   although the framework , vision , and value of industry 5.0 are becoming
   popular research topics in various academic and industrial fields , the agri
   food sector has just started to embrace some aspects and dimensions of
   industry 5.0 . 2024 the author ( s ) . comprehensive reviews in food science
   and food safety published by wiley periodicals llc on behalf of institute of
   food technologists .
DE advanced technologies; agri-food; fifth industrial revolution; human
   centricity; sustainability
ID agriculture; artificial intelligence; food industry; food technology; agri-
   food; agribusiness; food chemistry; food ingredients; food technology;
   industry 40; advanced technology; fifth industrial revolution; food
   industries; food science and technology; food sector; future applications;
   holistic approach; human centricities; industrial revolutions; multi-
   disciplinary approach; agriculture; artificial intelligence; food handling;
   food industry; procedures; food industry

---

UT 1939
AR Soundara Rajan S, 2025, FOOD HUMANIT, V4, DOI 10.1016/j.foohum.2025.100593
TI A review of smart food and packaging technologies: Revolutionizing nutrition
   and sustainability
AU Soundara Rajan S; Wani KM
TC 27
SO FOOD HUMANIT
PY 2025
AB the increasing demand for food safety , quality , and sustainability has
   driven the evolution of smart food and packaging technologies . traditional
   packaging systems primarily serve passive roles , but modern innovations
   integrate active and intelligent functions to enhance food preservation ,
   reduce waste , and improve consumer experience . smart packaging solutions ,
   including biosensors , time temperature indicators , and antimicrobial films
   , provide real time monitoring and extend product shelf life . additionally
   , biodegradable and nanocomposite based materials offer environmentally
   friendly alternatives to conventional plastics , aligning with global
   sustainability goals . the review explores the latest advancements in smart
   packaging , highlighting the role of internet of things ( iot ) , artificial
   intelligence ( ai ) , and blockchain in strengthening food traceability and
   supply chain transparency . the integration of personalized nutrition within
   smart food systems is also discussed , offering tailored dietary solutions
   based on consumer health data . while these technologies present
   transformative potential , challenges such as consumer acceptance ,
   scalability , and regulatory compliance must be addressed for widespread
   adoption . future research should focus on optimizing sensor accuracy ,
   improving the biodegradability of packaging materials , and enhancing cost
   effectiveness to facilitate global implementation
DE active packaging; food sustainability; intelligent packaging; personalized
   nutrition; smart food

---

UT 1940
AR Bansal M, 2026, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V16358 LNCS, P139, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-18480-1_14
TI Health-Aware Food Recommendations for Thyroid Patients Using Machine
   Learning and Collaborative Filtering
AU Bansal M; Saha R; Jain G
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2026
AB in india , where thyroid related disorders affect over 42 million people ,
   particularly women , there is a pressing need for personalized dietary
   guidance . this paper proposes nutriguide , a personalized food
   recommendation system that provides health aware food suggestions to users
   based on their thyroid conditions . the system uses support vector machines
   for user classification and integrates alternative least square , neural
   collaborative filtering ( ncf ) , and variational autoencoders to generate
   effective recommendations . among these , ncf demonstrated superior
   performance across evaluation metrics . a semi personalized recommendation
   strategy using expert dietician ratings is proposed to tackle the cold start
   problem . this approach provides a robust solution for enhancing nutrition
   awareness and delivering health conscious food suggestions to users in
   resource constrained settings
DE cold start problem; health-aware recommendation; neural collaborative
   filtering; semi-personalized recommendation; thyroid classification
ID collaborative learning; learning systems; nutrition; recommender systems;
   support vector machines; cold start problems; condition; health-aware
   recommendation; machine learning; neural collaborative filtering;
   personalized recommendation; pressung; semi-personalized recommendation;
   system use; thyroid classification; collaborative filtering

---

UT 1941
AR Zhang P/1, 2024, AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC, V2024, P1529
TI Adaptive Constraint Relaxation in Personalized Nutrition Recommendations: An
   LLM-Driven Knowledge Graph Retrieval Approach
AU Zhang P/1; Fnu M; Song Y/1; Seneviratne O; Yang Z; Azimi I; Rahmani AM
TC 0
SO AMIA ANNU SYMP PROC
PY 2024
AB personalized food recommendation systems must balance various constraints ,
   including medical guidelines , nutritional needs , and individual
   preferences . however , existing methods often struggle with overly
   restrictive queries , frequently failing to generate recommendations when no
   exact match exists . to address this challenge , we propose an adaptive
   knowledge graph ( kg ) retrieval framework that integrates large language
   models ( llms ) for intelligent constraint relaxation . our approach
   dynamically prioritizes constraints , ensuring that critical dietary
   requirements remain intact while selectively relaxing less essential ones .
   by leveraging llm driven constraint analysis and structured relaxation
   strategies , our system significantly enhances recommendation coverage
   without compromising key dietary needs , while maintaining optimal
   recommendation performance . experimental results on both the original and
   the extended constraint dataset demonstrate that our method successfully
   retrieves recommendations in cases where previous approaches fail ,
   achieving higher retrieval accuracy and a balanced tradeoff between
   flexibility and adherence to dietary constraints . the code is public
   available at 2024 amia all rights reserved .
ID algorithms; diet; humans; information storage and retrieval; nutritional
   requirements; precision medicine; programming languages; algorithm; computer
   language; diet; human; information retrieval; nutritional requirement;
   personalized medicine; procedures

---

UT 1942
AR Garcia MB, 2019, IEEE INT CONF HUMANOID NANOTECHNOL TECHNOL COMMUN CONTROL
   ENV MANAG HNICEM, DOI 10.1109/HNICEM48295.2019.9073490
TI Plan-Cook-Eat: A Meal Planner App with Optimal Macronutrient Distribution of
   Calories Based on Personal Total Daily Energy Expenditure
AU Garcia MB
TC 32
SO IEEE INT CONF HUMANOID NANOTECHNOL TECHNOL COMMUN CONTROL ENV MANAG HNICEM
PY 2019
AB one essential factor of a balanced diet to prevent morbidity and mortality ,
   and promote a good nutritional status is the consumption of nutrient dense
   foods with an appropriate macronutrients dispersal ( carbohydrates , protein
   , fat ) and the right amount of calories based on personal energy
   expenditure . while the field of dietetics and nutrition has been bombarded
   with food recommender systems over the years , little research has been
   performed on meal planner applications grounded on macronutrients compliance
   . drawing from a parallel iterative design methodology , this paper proposed
   the development of a web based meal planner app called 'plan cook eat that
   can generate tailored diet plans according to individual s needs . six
   registered nutritionists dietitians served as a panel of human expert
   validators and 24 regular users served as app testers for evaluation using
   mixed methods approach . study participants confirmed and concluded the
   potential of plan cook eat web app as a personal meal planner to ensure the
   consumption of needed macronutrients . suggestions and interpretations were
   made regarding the technical improvements that could be done to enhance the
   app as a complete virtual nutrition assistant
DE dietetics; macronutrients mobile application development; meal planner;
   nutrition; nutrition science
ID cooking; environmental management; iterative methods; nanotechnology;
   balanced diet; energy expenditure; human expert; iterative design
   methodology; mixed method; nutrient-dense foods; personal energy; technical
   improvement; nutrition

---

UT 1943
AR Akrungsri K, 2024, INT CONF CYBERN INNOV ICCI, DOI
   10.1109/ICCI60780.2024.10532468
TI Weight Loss Recommendation System
AU Akrungsri K; Chomphuthan T; Janthong V; Yaembangyang W; Saiyuang W;
   Songmuang P
TC 0
SO INT CONF CYBERN INNOV ICCI
PY 2024
AB in the modern days , overweight and obesity are growing fast around the
   world due to urban growth and shifting lifestyles , eating habits have
   changed toward unhealthy food , which can lead to overweight and associated
   health problems . our food recommendation system is designed to assist users
   in discovering food that aligns with daily calorie goals . this research
   study aimed to develop a personalized food recommendation system helping
   users effectively manage their weight . the study is performed by two
   different methods . collaborative filtering finds similar patterns or
   information of ratings on food items from individual users . content based
   uses similarities in food item that user preferred to make . both
   recommendation methods are calculated based on user s calorie needs per day
   , exercise behavior , and user s most recent meal which users can enter
   through a user friendly web based application
DE basal metabolic rate; collaborative filtering; content-based filtering; food
   recommendation; total daily energy expenditure
ID behavioral research; recommender systems; urban growth; basal metabolic
   rate; content-based filtering; eating habits; energy expenditure; food
   recommendation; metabolic rates; research studies; similar pattern; total
   daily energy expenditure; weight loss; collaborative filtering

---

UT 1944
AR [Anonymous], 2019, CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT
TI CEA 2019 - Proceedings of the 11th Workshop on Multimedia for Cooking and
   Eating Activities
TC 0
SO CEA - PROC WORK MULTIMED COOK EAT ACT
PY 2019
AB the proceedings contain 7 papers . the topics discussed include : mixed dish
   recognition through multi label learning . frame selection for producing
   recipe with pictures from an execution video of a recipe . foods
   recommendation system for meals out in nutrient balance . learning
   distributed representation of recipe flow graphs via frequent subgraphs .
   representation of recipe flow graphs in succinct data structures .
   application of data augmentation for accurate attractiveness estimation for
   food photography . and cooking state recognition based on acoustic event
   detection .

---

UT 1945
AR Sasanski D, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2436 CCIS, P19, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-86162-8_2
TI Aligning Food Ingredients with Multiple Semantic Resources
AU Sasanski D; Todorovski A; Trpeski B; Trajanov D; Eftimov T; Stojanov R
TC 1
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB to address the lack of integrated resources that combine nutritional ,
   chemical , and semantic information , we have integrated the recipe1m+
   dataset with the usda national nutrient database , foodb , and the foodon
   ontology . this integration brings significant advantages by enriching the
   dataset with comprehensive information across multiple domains . by linking
   recipe1m+ ingredients to the usda database , we provide detailed nutritional
   profiles that enable a comprehensive analysis of recipes , supporting
   researchers and dietitians in developing personalized nutrition plans based
   on accurate nutrient data . furthermore , incorporating foodb enhances the
   dataset with in depth chemical compositions and health effects of food
   constituents , facilitating research on functional foods and their role in
   disease prevention and health promotion . mapping ingredients to foodon
   further expands the dataset s semantic context , encompassing food products
   , production , agriculture , and environmental impacts . this integration
   promotes interdisciplinary research and the creation of comprehensive
   knowledge graphs , bridging gaps between nutrition , food science ,
   agriculture , and health domains . our methodology has been validated ,
   demonstrating significantly better results with a precision of 76.25 % .
   adhering to the fair principles , we ensure the data is findable ,
   accessible , interoperable , and reusable . the enriched recipe1m+ dataset
   supports advanced applications , such as predictive modeling of dietary
   impacts , food recommendation systems , and sustainable food system studies
   , making it a valuable resource for the research community and beyond ( the
   data and code are publicly available at the following link )
DE entity linking; functional foods; knowledge graphs; name normalization;
   nutritional profiles; semantic resources
ID dietary supplements; flavors; nutrition; recommender systems; entity
   linking; food ingredients; functionals; integrated resources; knowledge
   graphs; name normalization; normalization; nutritional information;
   nutritional profiles; semantic resources; vitamins

---

UT 1946
AR Rais RNB, 2024, APPL SCI, V14, DOI 10.3390/app14135843
TI A Hybrid Group-Based Food Recommender Framework for Handling Overlapping
   Memberships
AU Rais RNB; Noman M; Khalid O; Khan IA
TC 7
SO APPL SCI
PY 2024
AB recommender systems ( rss ) play a pivotal role in mitigating information
   overload by aiding individuals or groups in discovering relevant and
   personalized information . an individual s food preferences may vary when
   dining with friends compared to dining with family . most of the existing
   group rss generally assume users to be associated with a single group .
   however , in real world scenarios , a user can be part of multiple groups
   due to overlapping / diverse preferences . this raises several challenges
   for traditional rss due to the inherent complexity of group memberships ,
   degrading the effectiveness and accuracy of the recommendations . computing
   user to group membership degrees is a complex task , and conventional
   methods often fall short in accurately capturing the varied preferences of
   individuals . to address these challenges , we propose an integrated two
   stage group recommendation ( itgr ) framework that considers users
   simultaneous memberships in multiple groups with conflicting preferences .
   we employ fuzzy c means clustering along with collaborative filtering to
   provide a more flexible and precise approach to membership assignment .
   group formation is carried out using similarity thresholds followed by deep
   neural collaborative filtering ( dncf ) to generate the top k items for each
   group . experiments are conducted using a large scale recipes dataset , and
   the results demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms traditional
   approaches in terms of group satisfaction , normalized discounted cumulative
   gain ( ndcg ) , precision , recall , and f1-measure
DE collaborative filtering; food recommendation; fuzzy c-means; group
   recommender
ID deep neural networks; fuzzy systems; large datasets; recommender systems;
   c-means; food recommendation; fuzzy c-mean; group memberships; group
   recommenders; group-based; information overloads; multiple-group;
   overlapping memberships; personalized information; collaborative filtering

---

UT 1947
AR Vairale VS, 2021, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V132, P71, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-15-5309-7_8
TI Recommendation of food items for thyroid patients using content-based knn
   method
AU Vairale VS; Shukla S
TC 18
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2021
AB food recommendation system has become a recent topic of research due to
   increase use of web services . a balanced food intake is significant to
   maintain individual s physical health . due to unhealthy eating patterns ,
   it results in various diseases like diabetes , thyroid disorder , and even
   cancer . the choice of food items with proper nutritional values depends on
   individual s health conditions and food preferences . therefore ,
   personalized food recommendations are provided based on personal
   requirements . people can easily access a huge amount of food details from
   online sources like healthcare forums , dietitian blogs , and social media
   websites . personal food preferences , health conditions , and reviews or
   ratings of food items are required to recommend diet for thyroid patients .
   we propose a unified food recommendation framework to identify food items by
   incorporating various content based features . the framework uses the domain
   knowledge to build the private model to analyze unique food characteristics
   . the proposed recommender model generates diet recommendation list for
   thyroid patients using food items rating patterns and similarity scores .
   the experimental setup validated the proposed food recommender system with
   various evaluation criteria , and the proposed framework provides better
   results than conventional food recommender systems . the editor ( s ) ( if
   applicable ) and the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to springer
   nature singapore pte ltd 2021 .
DE content-based; food preference matrix; inverse document frequency; k-nearest
   neighbor; term frequency

---

UT 1948
AR González A, 2025, NUTR REV, V83, Pe602, DOI 10.1093/nutrit/nuae046
TI Conjugated linoleic acid metabolite impact in colorectal cancer: a potential
   microbiome-based precision nutrition approach
AU González A; Fullaondo A; Rodríguez J; Tirnauca C; Odriozola I; Odriozola A
TC 15
SO NUTR REV
PY 2025
AB colorectal cancer ( crc ) is the second most deadly and the third most
   diagnosed cancer in both sexes worldwide . crc pathogenesis is associated
   with risk factors such as genetics , alcohol , smoking , sedentariness ,
   obesity , unbalanced diets , and gut microbiota dysbiosis . the gut
   microbiota is the microbial community living in symbiosis in the intestine ,
   in a dynamic balance vital for health . increasing evidence underscores the
   influence of specific gut microbiota bacterial species on crc incidence and
   pathogenesis . in this regard , conjugated linoleic acid ( cla ) metabolites
   produced by certain gut microbiota have demonstrated an anticarcinogenic
   effect in crc , influencing pathways for inflammation , proliferation , and
   apoptosis . cla production occurs naturally in the rumen , and human
   bioavailability is through the consumption of food derived from ruminants .
   in recent years , biotechnological attempts to increase cla bioavailability
   in humans have been unfruitful . therefore , the conversion of essential
   dietary linoleic acid to cla metabolite by specific intestinal bacteria has
   become a promising process . this article reviews the evidence regarding cla
   and cla producing bacteria as therapeutic agents against crc and
   investigates the best strategy for increasing the yield and bioavailability
   of cla . given the potential and limitations of the present strategies , a
   new microbiome based precision nutrition approach based on endogenous cla
   production by human gut bacteria is proposed . a literature search in the
   pubmed and pubmed central databases identified 794 papers on human gut
   bacteria associated with cla production . of these , 51 studies exploring
   association consistency were selected . after excluding 19 papers , due to
   health concerns or discrepancies between studies , 32 papers were selected
   for analysis , encompassing data for 38 cla producing bacteria , such as
   bifidobacterium and lactobacillus species . the information was analyzed by
   a bioinformatics food recommendation system patented by our research group ,
   phymofood ( ep22382095 ) . this paper presents a new microbiome based
   precision nutrition approach targeting cla producing gut bacterial species
   to maximize the anticarcinogenic effect of cla in crc
DE anticarcinogen; colorectal cancer; conjugated linoleic acid; gut microbiota;
   precision nutrition
ID animals; biological availability; colorectal neoplasms; gastrointestinal
   microbiome; humans; linoleic acids conjugated; precision medicine; beta
   catenin; c reactive protein; caspase 3; caspase 9; conjugated linoleic acid;
   cyclin dependent kinase; cycline; gelatinase a; gelatinase b; interleukin
   1beta; mitogen activated protein kinase 1; mitogen activated protein kinase
   3; peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; phosphatidylinositol 3
   kinase; protein bax; protein bcl 2; protein kinase b; protein p21; protein
   p53; somatomedin c receptor; transcription factor 4; tumor necrosis factor;
   conjugated linoleic acid; acidipropionibacterium acidipropionici;
   antitumorigenic activity; apoptosis; bifidobacterium; bifidobacterium
   adolescentis; bifidobacterium animalis; bifidobacterium bifidum;
   bifidobacterium breve; bifidobacterium longum; bioavailability; cell
   differentiation; cell growth; cell proliferation; chemoradiotherapy;
   colorectal cancer; functional food; growth inhibition; human; intestine
   flora; lactobacillus; lactobacillus acidophilus; lactobacillus brevis;
   lactobacillus casei; lactobacillus crispatus; lactobacillus delbrueckii
   subsp bulgaricus; lactobacillus fermentum; lactobacillus gasseri;
   lactobacillus helveticus; lactobacillus paracasei; lactobacillus pentosus;
   lactobacillus plantarum; lactobacillus reuteri; lactobacillus rhamnosus;
   lactobacillus salivarius; lactococcus lactis; leuconostoc mesenteroides;
   nonhuman; pediococcus pentosaceus; propionibacterium freudenreichii; protein
   blood level; review; streptococcus thermophilus; systematic review; animal;
   colorectal tumor; drug effect; microbiology; personalized medicine;
   physiology

---

UT 1949
AR Loesch J, 2022, CEUR WORK PROC, V3127, P19
TI Automated Identification of Food Substitutions Using Knowledge Graph
   Embeddings
AU Loesch J; Meeckers L; Van Lier I; De Boer A; Dumontier M; Celebi R
TC 8
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2022
AB healthy eating is a daily challenge for many , which is in uenced by various
   factors such as taste , accessibility , price , and the food environment .
   consumers often are insufficiently informed about healthier options for the
   foods they consume . being able to identify healthy alternatives for foods
   according to similarities in nutritional value will help consumers choose
   products that they prefer . this work aims to identify healthy alternatives
   to foods that also have similar nutritional characteristics through the use
   of knowledge graph embeddings ( kges ) . the quality of the kges is assessed
   against a newly created ground truth , which is verified by two domain
   experts . hence , this work presents a newly created ground truth food
   substitution data set and describes the development of a food recommender
   system that identifies healthier alternatives to foods
DE food similarity; healthy food choice; ingredient substitution; knowledge
   graph embedding; nutritional profile
ID food products; graph embeddings; nutrition; automated identification; food
   similarity; graph embeddings; ground truth; healthy food choice; healthy
   foods; ingredient substitution; knowledge graph embedding; knowledge graphs;
   nutritional profiles; knowledge graph

---

UT 1950
AR Carchiolo V, 2021, INT CONF COMPLEX FUTUR INF SYST RISK COMPLEXIS - PROC,
   V2021-April, P117
TI Food Recommendation in a Worksite Canteen
AU Carchiolo V; Grassia M; Longheu A; Malgeri M; Mangioni G
TC 1
SO INT CONF COMPLEX FUTUR INF SYST RISK COMPLEXIS - PROC
PY 2021
AB recommendation systems tackle with information overload to assist people in
   finding their best choice according to their preferences and past behavior .
   this occurred in many contexts , including the food sector where culinary
   inspiration , sales increase or healthy advice motivate the adoption of such
   a system . in this paper we propose a canteen food recommendation system for
   workers operating at an innovation hub including more than 20 companies .
   the system leverages a 30 months data set of past choices , and adopts a
   content based and a collaborative filtering approach for canteen users ,
   suggesting them with dishes chosen by other similar users . first results
   for frequent as well as occasional canteen visitors are encouraging to
   validate the proposed approach
DE data analysis; machine learning; recommendation system
ID collaborative filtering; recommender systems; best choice; content-based;
   dataset; food sector; information overloads; innovation hubs; machine
   learning; work sites; workers; machine learning

---

UT 1951
AR Ribeiro D, 2020, PROC IEEE/ACS INT CONF COMPUT SYST APPL AICCSA,
   V2020-November, DOI 10.1109/AICCSA50499.2020.9316490
TI FILLET-Platform for Intelligent Nutrition
AU Ribeiro D; Costa J; Lopes I; Barbosa T; Soares C; Sousa F; Ribeiro J; Rocha
   D; Silva M
TC 1
SO PROC IEEE/ACS INT CONF COMPUT SYST APPL AICCSA
PY 2020
AB poor dietary behaviors are commonly associated with severe chronic diseases
   such as cardiovascular diseases , diabetes and obesity . personalized food
   recommendation systems can be an important motivation to stimulate and
   inform people on best dietary practices by suggesting healthy foods and
   nutritionally balanced meals adjusted to their preferences and daily
   routines . the development of such systems require the process and
   integration of data available from different sources with different
   representations . filet is an intelligent platform for nutrition capable of
   collecting and integrating data from multiple sources including recipe
   websites , food blogs and nutrition databases . components were developed
   for web scraping , identifying ingredients , estimating nutritional content
   and matching ingredients with food products from retailers to support a meal
   recommendation and shopping list assistance services . we present for each
   component the challenges identified in the literature and the ones we faced
   in their development , describing our approach and the lessons learned that
   can contribute to the future improvement of the platform and the development
   of related platforms
DE food product matching; information extraction; information integration;
   ingredient parsing; natural language processing; nutrition; nutritional
   content estimation
ID data integration; diseases; food products; cardiovascular disease; chronic
   disease; daily routines; future improvements; intelligent platform; multiple
   source; shopping lists; web scrapings; nutrition

---

UT 1952
AR Shams MY, 2021, COMPUT BIOL MED, V135, DOI 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2021.104606
TI HANA: A Healthy Artificial Nutrition Analysis model during COVID-19 pandemic
AU Shams MY; Elzeki OM; Abouelmagd LM; Hassanien AE; Elfattah MA; Salem H
TC 38
SO COMPUT BIOL MED
PY 2021
AB background and objective : the impact of diet on covid 19 patients has been
   a global concern since the pandemic began . choosing different types of food
   affects peoples mental and physical health and , with persistent consumption
   of certain types of food and frequent eating , there may be an increased
   likelihood of death . in this paper , a regression system is employed to
   evaluate the prediction of death status based on food categories . methods :
   a healthy artificial nutrition analysis ( hana ) model is proposed . the
   proposed model is used to generate a food recommendation system and track
   individual habits during the covid 19 pandemic to ensure healthy foods are
   recommended . to collect information about the different types of foods that
   most of the world s population eat , the covid 19 healthy diet dataset was
   used . this dataset includes different types of foods from 170 countries
   around the world as well as obesity , undernutrition , death , and covid 19
   data as percentages of the total population . the dataset was used to
   predict the status of death using different machine learning regression
   models , i . e . , linear regression ( ridge regression , simple linear
   regularization , and elastic net regression ) , and adaboost models .
   results : the death status was predicted with high accuracy , and the food
   categories related to death were identified with promising accuracy . the
   mean square error ( mse ) , root mean square error ( rmse ) , mean absolute
   error ( mae ) , and r2 metrics and 20-fold cross validation were used to
   evaluate the accuracy of the prediction models for the covid 19 healthy diet
   dataset . the evaluations demonstrated that elastic net regression was the
   most efficient prediction model . based on an in depth analysis of recent
   nutrition recommendations by who , we confirm the same advice already
   introduced in the who report1 . overall , the outcomes also indicate that
   the remedying effects of covid 19 patients are most important to people
   which eat more vegetal products , oilcrops grains , beverages , and cereals
   excluding beer . moreover , people consuming more animal products , animal
   fats , meat , milk , sugar and sweetened foods , sugar crops , were
   associated with a higher number of deaths and fewer patient recoveries . the
   outcome of sugar consumption was important and the rates of death and
   recovery were influenced by obesity . conclusions : based on evaluation
   metrics , the proposed hana model may outperform other algorithms used to
   predict death status . the results of this study may direct patients to eat
   particular types of food to reduce the possibility of becoming infected with
   the covid 19 virus
DE artificial intelligence; covid-19; healthy food; machine learning; nutrition
   analysis; regression
ID animals; covid-19; diet; diet healthy; humans; pandemics; sars-cov-2;
   adaptive boosting; animals; beer; crops; errors; forecasting; grain (
   agricultural product ); machine learning; mean square error; population
   statistics; recovery; regression analysis; lactose; sugar; analysis models;
   covid-19; elastic net; healthy diet; healthy foods; machine learning; mental
   health; nutrition analyze; prediction model; regression model; animal
   product; article; artificial intelligence; beer; cereal; comparative study;
   coronavirus disease 2019; cross validation; eating habit; feature selection;
   healthy diet; machine learning; mortality risk; nutrition; obesity; oil
   crop; pandemic; prediction; remission; sugar intake; animal; diet; human;
   pandemic; nutrition

---

UT 1953
AR Svensson M, 2003, CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC, P844, DOI
   10.1145/765891.766026
TI Evaluating social trails
AU Svensson M; Höök K; Cöster R
TC 1
SO CONF HUM FACT COMPUT SYST PROC
PY 2003
AB we performed a 6-month study of a food recommender system to determine the
   influence of social trails on users choice of recipes . to measure the
   impact of the recommender functionality , we choose to avoid predictive
   accuracy metrics , and opted for contextualized subjective measures ,
   comparing recommendations to searching and browsing . 18 % of the selected
   recipes came from the list of recommended recipes . in addition , users
   liked and understood the recommendation functionality .
DE evaluation; recommender systems; social navigation
ID human engineering; evaluation; predictive accuracy; social navigation;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1954
AR Zhang Y/10, 2025, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V15281 LNAI, P269, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-96-0116-5_22
TI Multi-modal Food Recommendation Using Clustering and Self-supervised
   Learning
AU Zhang Y/10; Zhou X/1; Meng Q; Zhu F; Xu Y/2; Shen Z/1; Cui L
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems serve as pivotal components in the realm of
   digital lifestyle services , designed to assist users in discovering recipes
   and food items that resonate with their unique dietary predilections .
   typically , multi modal descriptions offer an exhaustive profile for each
   recipe , thereby ensuring recommendations that are both personalized and
   accurate . our preliminary investigation of two datasets indicates that pre
   trained multi modal dense representations might precipitate a deterioration
   in performance compared to id features when encapsulating interactive
   relationships . this observation implies that id features possess a relative
   superiority in modeling interactive collaborative signals . consequently ,
   contemporary cutting edge methodologies augment id features with multi modal
   information as supplementary features , overlooking the latent semantic
   relations between recipes . to rectify this , we present clussl , a novel
   food recommendation framework that employs clustering and self supervised
   learning . specifically , clussl formulates a modality specific graph
   tailored to each modality with discrete / continuous features , thereby
   transforming semantic features into structural representations . furthermore
   , clussl procures recipe representations pertinent to different modalities
   via graph convolutional operations . a self supervised learning objective is
   proposed to foster independence between recipe representations derived from
   different unimodal graphs . comprehensive experiments on real world datasets
   substantiate that clussl consistently surpasses state of the art
   recommendation benchmarks in performance
DE clustering; food recommendation; multi-modal; self-supervised learning
ID adversarial machine learning; supervised learning; clusterings;
   collaborative signal; cutting edges; digital lifestyle; food recommendation;
   interactive relationships; modal dense; multi-modal; multi-modal
   information; performance; self-supervised learning

---

UT 1955
AR Rostami M/1, 2023, PROC ACM CONF RECOMMEN SYST RECSYS, P1184, DOI
   10.1145/3604915.3610659
TI Towards Health-Aware Fairness in Food Recipe Recommendation
AU Rostami M/1; Aliannejadi M; Oussalah M
TC 5
SO PROC ACM CONF RECOMMEN SYST RECSYS
PY 2023
AB food recommendation systems play a crucial role in promoting personalized
   recommendations designed to help users find food and recipes that align with
   their preferences . however , many existing food recommendation systems have
   overlooked the important aspect of healthy food and nutritional value of
   recommended foods , thereby limiting their effectiveness in generating truly
   healthy recommendations . our preliminary analysis indicates that users tend
   to respond positively to unhealthy food and recipes . as a result , existing
   food recommender systems that neglect health considerations often assign
   high scores to popular items , inadvertently encouraging unhealthy choices
   among users . in this study , we propose the development of a fairness based
   model that prioritizes health considerations . our model incorporates
   fairness constraints from both the user and item perspectives , integrating
   them into a joint objective framework . experimental results conducted on
   real world food datasets demonstrate that the proposed system not only
   maintains the ability of food recommendation systems to suggest users
   favorite foods but also improves the health factor compared to unfair models
   , with an average enhancement of approximately 35 %
DE fairness; food recommendation; healthy recommendation; recommender systems
ID fairness; fairness constraints; food recommendation; health factors; healthy
   foods; healthy recommendation; nutritional value; personalized
   recommendation; preliminary analysis; real-world; recommender systems

---

UT 1956
AR Rostami M/1, 2022, INTELL SYST APPL, V16, DOI 10.1016/j.iswa.2022.200157
TI An effective explainable food recommendation using deep image clustering and
   community detection
AU Rostami M/1; Muhammad U; Forouzandeh S; Berahmand K; Farrahi V; Oussalah M
TC 53
SO INTELL SYST APPL
PY 2022
AB in food diet communication domain , images convey important information to
   capture users attention beyond the traditional ingredient content , making
   it crucial to influence user decision about the relevancy of a given diet .
   by using a deep learning based image clustering method , this paper proposes
   an explainable food recommendation system that uses the visual content of
   food to justify their recommendations . n the recommendation system .
   especially , a new similarity score based on a tendency measure that
   quantifies the extent to which user community prefers a given food category
   is introduced and incorporated in the recommendation . finally , a rule
   based explainability is introduced to enhance transparency and
   interpretability of the recommendation outcome . our experiments on a
   crawled dataset showed that the proposed method enhances recommendation
   quality in terms of precision , recall , f1 , and normalized discounted
   cumulative gain ( ndcg ) by 7.35 % , 6.70 % , 7.32 % and 14.38 % ,
   respectively , when compared to other existing methodologies for food
   recommendation . besides ablation study is performed to demonstrate the
   technical soundness of the various components of our recommendation system
DE deep learning; explainable artificial intelligence; food recommendation;
   recommender system
ID deep learning; clustering methods; communication domain; community
   detection; deep learning; explainable artificial intelligence; food
   recommendation; image clustering; similarity scores; user attention; visual
   content; recommender systems

---

UT 1957
AR Raggioli L, 2025, IEEE INT WORK ROBOT HUM COMMUN RO-MAN, P2424, DOI
   10.1109/RO-MAN63969.2025.11217686
TI A Robotic Assistant for Personalised Diet Recommendation
AU Raggioli L; Ciccarelli F; Rossi S; Rossi A
TC 0
SO IEEE INT WORK ROBOT HUM COMMUN RO-MAN
PY 2025
AB food recommender systems have become valuable tools across various domains ,
   including health oriented applications that provide personalized dietary
   advice . recent studies have shown the potential of integrating recommender
   systems with assistive robots to promote healthy eating habits , especially
   among older adults . while transformers and large language models showed
   advanced reasoning capability for effective recommendation systems , they
   might have limited knowledge and understanding of the users personal
   preference and requirements . this lack of information can negatively affect
   their effectiveness and user s satisfaction . we present a novel transformer
   assisted , multi interface recommendation system for generating food
   recommendations based on user profiles using a custom dataset including
   dietary and nutritional information . we conducted a user study with 40
   participants for evaluating whether a robot is able to persuade users in
   accepting its food recommendation . our study found that participants
   responded positively to the interactions with the robot , showing high
   satisfaction and trust in the recommendations
ID nutrition; robots; assistive robots; eating habits; language model;
   nutritional information; older adults; personal preferences; reasoning
   capabilities; robotic assistants; user profiles; users satisfactions;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1958
AR Ahmad M, 2023, J COMPUT BIOMED INF, V5, P153
TI A Diet Recommendation System for Persons with Special Dietary Requirements
AU Ahmad M; Khan AU; Sajid M
TC 6
SO J COMPUT BIOMED INF
PY 2023
AB a food recommender system assists consumers in selecting daily diets based
   on specific dietary guidelines . this study outlines the unique nutritional
   requirements of foods and the purposes of a diet recommender system to
   assist the person who is the victim of various diseases due to deficiency or
   abundance of nutrition . the recommender system utilizes two inputs , the
   nutrition based food dataset , and the the person s health profile . in this
   research , knowledge from the physiology field describes reasons for
   diseases that grow up due to inadequate or excessive intake of nutrition in
   food . the diet recommendation system uses the k means clustering algorithm
   , the food inference algorithm , and the patient nutrition calculation
   algorithm to prescribe the best food per individual patient s nutrition
   requirement . the food inference algorithm is based on two parameters : the
   k means clustered food dataset and the patient nutrition calculation value .
   our study utilizes the confusion matrix to evaluate the system s performance
   to obtain precision , recall , and f measure . the result of our research is
   a diet recommender system that recommends the food dish ( s ) having an
   appropriate quantity of nutrition , taking into account the gender , age ,
   and current nutrition status of the person . this system s significant
   advantage is reducing the excessive usage of medicine and preventing side
   effects . the diet recommender system can also help a person to precure from
   disease and get rid of appointments with a physician for medication and food
   prescriptions . 2023 , research center of computing and biomedical
   informatics
DE diet recommendation; inference algorithm; k-means clustering; nutrition;
   unsupervised learning

---

UT 1959
AR Tawatsuji Y, 2017, HAI - PROC INT CONF HUM AGENT INTERACT, P517, DOI
   10.1145/3125739.3132612
TI Construction of recommender system based on cognitive model for "self-
   reflection"
AU Tawatsuji Y; Yasuda Y; Matsui T
TC 0
SO HAI - PROC INT CONF HUM AGENT INTERACT
PY 2017
AB every human processes a set of mental schemas for problem solving . we
   develop and improve these schemas by reflecting on our experiences with
   errors , which is a type of metacognition ( kayashima , 2008 ) . in this
   study , we proposed a cognitive model of this ' self reflection ' process
   based on kayashima s two layer working memory model , and developed a food
   recommender system using our cognitive model . in the test simulation , the
   users were satisfied with the foods that the system recommended , although
   the recommendation results were unexpected to the users . this implied the
   system practically worked to satisfy the user s expectation . on the other
   hand , the candidate recommendations which the system selected as its final
   output were different from those provided by the users . this suggests that
   the cognitive model needs improvement in terms of psychological reality
DE cognitive model; meta-cognition; recommender system; self-reflection
ID problem solving; cognitive model; meta cognitions; meta-cognition; process-
   based; self-reflection; two-layer; working memory model; recommender systems

---

UT 1960
AR Rostami M/1, 2024, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V14609 LNCS, P238, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-56060-6_16
TI Emotional Insights for Food Recommendations
AU Rostami M/1; Vardasbi A; Aliannejadi M; Oussalah M
TC 4
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB food recommendation systems have become pivotal in offering personalized
   suggestions , enabling users to discover recipes in line with their tastes .
   however , despite the existence of numerous such systems , there are still
   unresolved challenges . much of the previous research predominantly lies on
   users past preferences , neglecting the significant aspect of discerning
   users emotional insights . our framework aims to bridge this gap by
   pioneering emotion aware food recommendation . the study strives for
   enhanced accuracy by delivering recommendations tailored to a broad spectrum
   of emotional and dietary behaviors . uniquely , we introduce five novel
   scores for influencer followers , visualmotivation , adventurous , health
   and niche to gage a user s inclination toward specific emotional insights .
   subsequently , these indices are used to re rank the preliminary
   recommendation , placing a heightened focus on the user s emotional
   disposition . experimental results on a real world food social network
   dataset reveal that our system outperforms alternative emotion unaware
   recommender systems , yielding an average performance boost of roughly 6 % .
   furthermore , the results reveal a rise of over 30 % in accuracy metrics for
   some users exhibiting particular emotional insights
DE cognitive science; emotional insights; food recommendation; recommender
   system
ID broad spectrum; cognitive science; emotional insight; food recommendation;
   performance; real-world; recommender systems

---

UT 1961
AR Doan D, 2023, PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT ANAL ACOMPA, P113, DOI
   10.1109/ACOMPA61072.2023.00027
TI A Personalized Meal Recommendation Approach For Smart Refrigerator
AU Doan D; Tran TT; Truong BN; Ngo TN; Nguyen MS
TC 4
SO PROC - INT CONF ADV COMPUT ANAL ACOMPA
PY 2023
AB this paper presents a food recommendation system that utilizes the multiple
   regression formula to suggest suitable dishes and meals . the system
   incorporates several independent variables , including ingredient
   availability ( consisting of ingredient weights and expiration weights ) ,
   user ratings , user health conditions , and nutritional responsiveness . the
   dependent variable is the appropriateness of the suggested dish and meal
   choices for the users . by employing the multiple regression formula , our
   system aims to understand the relationships between these variables and
   develop an effective method for providing personalized food and meal
   recommendations . the results contribute to the field of personalized food
   recommendation and provide insights for enhancing user satisfaction and
   promoting healthy eating habits
DE dish recommendation; meal recommendation; multiple regression; personalized
   recommendations
ID dependent variables; dish recommendation; health condition; independent
   variables; meal recommendation; multiple regressions; personalized
   recommendation; regression formulas; user rating; users satisfactions;
   regression analysis

---

UT 1962
AR Venkataramanan R, 2023, CONF PROC IEEE INT CONF SYST MAN CYBERN, P981, DOI
   10.1109/SMC53992.2023.10394432
TI Cook-Gen: Robust Generative Modeling of Cooking Actions from Recipes
AU Venkataramanan R; Roy K; Raj K; Prasad R; Zi Y; Narayanan V; Sheth A
TC 6
SO CONF PROC IEEE INT CONF SYST MAN CYBERN
PY 2023
AB as people become more aware of their food choices , food computation models
   have become increasingly popular in assisting people in maintaining healthy
   eating habits . for example , food recommendation systems analyze recipe
   instructions to assess nutritional contents and provide recipe
   recommendations . the recent and remarkable successes of generative ai
   methods , such as auto regressive large language models , can enable robust
   methods for a more comprehensive understanding of recipes for healthy food
   recommendations beyond surface level nutrition content assessments . in this
   study , we investigate the use of generative ai methods to extend current
   food computation models , primarily involving the analysis of nutrition and
   ingredients , to also incorporate cooking actions ( e . g . , add salt , fry
   the meat , boil the vegetables , etc . ) , cooking actions are notoriously
   hard to model using statistical learning methods due to irregular data
   patterns significantly varying natural language descriptions for the same
   action ( e . g . , marinate the meat vs . marinate the meat and leave
   overnight ) and infrequently occurring patterns ( e . g . , add salt occurs
   far more frequently than marinating the meat ) . the prototypical approach
   to handling irregular data patterns is to increase the volume of data that
   the model ingests by orders of magnitude . unfortunately , in the cooking
   domain , these problems are further compounded with larger data volumes
   presenting a unique challenge that is not easily handled by simply scaling
   up . in this work , we propose novel aggregation based generative ai methods
   , cook gen , that reliably generate cooking actions from recipes , despite
   difficulties with irregular data patterns , while also outperforming large
   language models and other strong baselines
ID computational linguistics; cooking; data handling; learning systems; meats;
   natural language processing systems; current; autoregressive; computation
   model; data patterns; eating habits; generative model; healthy foods;
   irregular data; language model; robust methods; nutrition

---

UT 1963
AR Metwally AA, 2021, PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIOINFORM BIOMED BIBM, P2281, DOI
   10.1109/BIBM52615.2021.9669643
TI Learning Personal Food Preferences via Food Logs Embedding
AU Metwally AA; Leong AK; Desai A; Nagarjuna A; Perelman D; Snyder M
TC 5
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF BIOINFORM BIOMED BIBM
PY 2021
AB diet management is key to managing chronic dis eases such as diabetes .
   automated food recommender systems may be able to assist by providing meal
   recommendations that conform to a user s nutrition goals and food
   preferences . current recommendation systems suffer from a lack of accuracy
   that is in part due to a lack of knowledge of food preferences . in this
   work , we propose a method for learning food preferences from food logs , a
   comprehensive but noisy source of information about users dietary habits .
   we also introduce accompanying metrics to evaluate personal learning food
   preferences . the method generates and compares word embeddings to identify
   the parent food category of each food entry and then calculates the most
   popular . our proposed approach identifies 82 % of a user s ten most
   frequently eaten foods . our method is publicly available on
DE food preferences; machine learning; recommender systems
ID embeddings; machine learning; recommender systems; current; embeddings; food
   preference; machine learning; management is; noisy sources; personal
   learning; sources of informations; nutrition

---

UT 1964
AR Banda SA, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2937 CCIS, P121, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-22208-4_9
TI A Secure and Private Food Recommendation Framework Using Game-Theoretic
   Adversarial Learning
AU Banda SA; Tasnim R; Siddula M; Odeyomi OT; Khorsandroo S
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB personalized food recommendation systems , due to their reliance on
   centralized data storage , often suffer from privacy and security
   vulnerabilities . this research proposes a privacy preserving framework
   integrating functional encryption and adversarial learning to safeguard
   sensitive user information while maintaining recommendation accuracy .
   additionally , fernet encryption is used for data encryption . a data
   poisoning attack is simulated to assess system resilience by injecting
   adversarial noise into encrypted datasets . data imbalance is addressed
   using the synthetic minority oversampling technique ( smote ) to enhance
   model fairness . experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system
   effectively mitigates adversarial threats , preserves user privacy , and
   achieves robust performance across various metrics . this work advances
   secure and privacy aware recommendation systems , offering a practical
   approach to defending against data manipulation attacks
DE adversarial learning; data poisoning; functional encryption; privacy  and
   security; recommender systems; regular research paper; smote
ID digital storage; game theory; learning systems; privacy-preserving
   techniques; adversarial learning; centralized; data poisoning; data storage;
   functional encryptions; game-theoretic; privacy  and  security; regular
   research paper; research papers; synthetic minority over-sampling
   techniques; recommender systems

---

UT 1965
AR El Majjodi A, 2026, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2802 CCIS, P78, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-13342-7_7
TI LLM-Based Healthiness?  Analyzing the Nutritional Quality of an AI-Generated
   Recipe Dataset
AU El Majjodi A; Holtan JB; Starke AD; Trattner C
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2026
AB recipe discovery has become increasingly accessible through large language
   models ( llms ) . however , the nutritional content and quality of ai
   generated content remain underexplored , raising concerns about its public
   health implications and its applicability in food recommender systems . this
   paper presents a nutritional evaluation of a recipe dataset generated by an
   llm , assessed against health guidelines from the world health organization
   ( who ) and the uk food standards agency ( fsa ) . using standardized
   scoring systems , we analyzed subsets of general and diet specific recipes .
   although the model produced moderately healthy recipes , it often did not
   meet stricter dietary standards , particularly in terms of fiber content and
   saturated fat levels . nutritional quality also varied between meal
   categories , with desserts and snacks performing the worst . in addition to
   these findings , we introduce a curated and labeled dataset of recipes
   generated by an llm to support future work in health based food
   recommendation . our results highlight both the potential and limitations of
   generative models in nutrition sensitive domains
DE generative ai; healthy recommendations; recipe dataset; recipe
   recommendations; synthetic dataset
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; food chemistry; food ingredients;
   recommender systems; generative ai; health implications; healthy
   recommendation; language model; model-based opc; nutritional evaluations;
   nutritional qualities; recipe dataset; recipe recommendation; synthetic
   datasets; nutrition

---

UT 1966
AR Alkhrijah Y, 2026, SCI REP, V16, DOI 10.1038/s41598-025-30496-2
TI Adaptive dynamic hypergraph learning for ingredient aware food
   recommendation
AU Alkhrijah Y; N Talib A; Singh NSS; Hussein AA
TC 0
SO SCI REP
PY 2026
AB food recommendation systems face fundamental challenges in modeling the
   complex , compositional relationships among users , foods , and ingredients
   . traditional collaborative filtering and graph neural networks rely on
   pairwise connections that oversimplify culinary interactions , while
   existing hypergraph approaches use static weights that fail to adapt to
   dynamic user preferences and ingredient semantics . we propose frmadhg (
   food recommendation with multi objective adaptive dynamic hypergraph ) , a
   novel framework that captures higher order interactions through a tripartite
   hypergraph where foods serve as hyperedges connecting users and ingredients
   . our key innovations include : ( 1 ) a complexity aware adaptive attention
   mechanism that dynamically switches between efficient cosine similarity and
   sophisticated learnable attention based on local interaction complexity , (
   2 ) type specific embedding propagation rules that respect the distinct
   semantic roles of users , foods , and ingredients , ( 3 ) dynamic laplacian
   construction that evolves during training to emphasize semantically coherent
   relationships , and ( 4 ) a multi objective learning strategy combining
   triplet ranking , contrastive learning , and regularization for robust
   embeddings . frmadhg provides multi granular explainability through
   ingredient level importance scores and path based reasoning , enabling
   transparent dietary decisions . comprehensive experiments on two large scale
   datasetsfood . com ( 32,000 users , 18,500 foods , 1,270 unique ingredients
   ) and allrecipes ( 25,400 users , 16,200 foods , 1,050 ingredients )
   demonstrate significant improvements over state of the art methods : 19.8 %
   relative gain in precision@10 compared to collaborative filtering baselines
   , 12.4 % improvement over recent hypergraph approaches , and 18.7 %
   enhancement in recall@10 ( all with ) . ablation studies validate the
   critical contributions of dynamic hypergraph construction ( 12.4 %
   performance gain ) , adaptive attention mechanism ( 11.8 % ) , and
   contrastive learning ( 9.7 % ) , while user studies confirm the
   effectiveness of our ingredient level explanations for building user trust
   and satisfaction
DE adaptive attention; explainable ai; food nutrition improvement; food
   recommendation; multi-objective learning; tripartite hypergraphs
ID algorithms; food ingredients; humans; learning; neural networks computer;
   semantics; food ingredient; article; explainable artificial intelligence;
   filtration; graph neural network; human; learning; nutrition; reasoning;
   semantics; algorithm; artificial neural network

---

UT 1967
AR Gao X/2, 2022, SCI, V584, P170, DOI 10.1016/j.ins.2021.10.040
TI Food recommendation with graph convolutional network
AU Gao X/2; Feng F; Huang H; Mao X-L; Lan T; Chi Z
TC 77
SO SCI
PY 2022
AB food recommendation has attracted increasing attentions to various food
   related applications and services . the food recommender models aim to match
   users preferences with recipes , where the key lies in the representation
   learning of users and recipes . however , ranging from early content based
   filtering and collaborative filtering methods to recent hybrid methods , the
   existing work overlooks the various food related relations , especially the
   ingredient ingredient relations , leading to incomprehensive representations
   . to bridge this gap , we propose a novel model food recommendation with
   graph convolutional network ( fgcn ) , which exploits ingredient ingredient
   , ingredient recipe , and recipe user relations deeply . fgcn employs the
   information propagation mechanism and adopts multiple embedding propagation
   layers to model high order connectivity across different food related
   relations and enhance the representations . specifically , we develop three
   types of information propagation : ( 1 ) ingredient ingredient information
   propagation , ( 2 ) ingredient recipe information propagation , and ( 3 )
   recipe user information propagation . to validate the effectiveness and
   rationality of fgcn , we conduct extensive experiments on a real world
   dataset . the results show that the proposed fgcn outperforms the state of
   the art baselines . further in depth analyzes reveal that fgcn could
   alleviate the sparsity issue in food recommendation
DE food recommendation; food-related relations; graph convolutional network;
   high-order connectivity; information propagation
ID collaborative filtering; convolution; content-based filtering; convolutional
   networks; food recommendation; food-related relation; graph convolutional
   network; high-order; high-order connectivity; higher-order; information
   propagation; user preferences; information dissemination

---

UT 1968
AR Bölz F, 2024, PROC - IEEE/WIC INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL WI-
   IAT, P86, DOI 10.1109/WI-IAT62293.2024.00020
TI Food KBQA Recommender: A Knowledge Base Question Answering System Powered
   Meal Plan Recommender
AU Bölz F; Nurbakova D; Serna A; Calabretto S; Brunie L; Kosch H
TC 1
SO PROC - IEEE/WIC INT CONF WEB INTELL INTELL AGENT TECHNOL WI-IAT
PY 2024
AB this study investigates the efficacy of a hybrid recommendation model for
   personalized meal plans , integrating knowledge base question answering (
   kbqa ) , information retrieval ( ir ) , and recommendation techniques . it
   utilizes the hybrid model to consider both different dietary preferences and
   nutritional requirements . in addition , it tries to bridge the gap between
   the recommender itself and its effectiveness in the real world by offering
   interfaces for integrating persuasion via explanation and gamification . the
   findings contribute to extending knowledge about the development of food
   recommendation systems in constrained contexts . the system can address
   health awareness by considering user defined constraints . however , in big
   use cases , it has issues with its scalability . future work involves
   refining the data generation processes and exploring non kbqa models for
   broader scalability and adantability 2024 ieee .
DE food recommendation; health-aware recomnendation; information retrieval;
   kbqa recommendation; persuasive systems
ID domain knowledge; expert systems; food recommendation; health-aware
   recomnendation; hybrid recommendation; information recommendation; knowledge
   base question answering recommendation; persuasive system; question
   answering; question answering systems; recommendation techniques; retrieval
   techniques; knowledge engineering

---

UT 1969
AR Rani BU, 2024, INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT, DOI
   10.1109/CONIT61985.2024.10626573
TI An Advanced Deep Learning Approach for Dietary Recommendations using ROBERTA
AU Rani BU; Joshnavalli T; Reddy BS; Sreelaasya A
TC 3
SO INT CONF INTELL TECHNOL CONIT
PY 2024
AB this project introduces a novel food recommendation system empowered by the
   roberta model , a state of the art transformer based architecture in natural
   language processing . leveraging roberta s advanced language understanding
   capabilities , our system aims to revolutionize the domain of dietary
   recommendations by providing personalized and context aware suggestions to
   users . the roberta model plays a pivotal role in capturing intricate
   textual nuances related to nutritional content , dietary preferences , and
   individual health profiles , thereby enhancing the accuracy and relevance of
   the recommendations . the methodology involves the integration of roberta
   into the recommendation system , detailing the fine tuning process and
   adaptation of the model to the unique challenges posed by dietary
   recommendation tasks . we explore the incorporation of relevant nutritional
   databases , ensuring that the roberta model is well versed in the domain
   specific knowledge required for effective food suggestions . the system s
   performance is evaluated through various metrics , showcasing its ability to
   outperform traditional rule based and machine learning based approaches in
   providing tailored dietary advice . furthermore , this project presents
   insightful curves and analyzes derived from the model s training process ,
   illustrating the learning trajectory , and highlighting key milestones in
   its proficiency . the experimental results demonstrate the system s
   effectiveness in adapting to diverse user preferences and evolving dietary
   trends , establishing its potential to positively impact users health and
   well being . ultimately , our food recommendation system , driven by the
   roberta model , signifies a significant advancement in the fusion of deep
   learning and nutritional science . the methodology curves presented herein
   offer a comprehensive understanding of the model s learning dynamics ,
   emphasizing its role in revolutionizing the landscape of personalized
   dietary recommendations . the promising results obtained pave the way for
   future research and applications , underscoring the potential of advanced
   language models in enhancing the precision and efficacy of food
   recommendation systems
DE deep learning; dietary recommendation; natural language processing; roberta;
   transformers
ID deep learning; deep learning; dietary recommendation; language processing;
   learning approach; natural language processing; natural languages; novel
   foods; roberta; state of the art; transformer; deep reinforcement learning

---

UT 1970
AR Starke A, 2022, CEUR WORK PROC, V3222, P67
TI Boosting Health?  Examining the Role of Nutrition Labels and Preference
   Elicitation Methods in Food Recommendation
AU Starke A; El Majjodi A; Trattner C
TC 3
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2022
AB how users evaluate a recommender system goes beyond the accuracy of the
   presented content . for food recommendation , users differ in terms of the
   needs they have . we investigated whether users with different levels of
   health consciousness evaluated food recommender interfaces differently ,
   depending on two factors : the preference elicitation ( pe ) method and the
   use of a nutrition label boost , which is a nudge that is explained to the
   user . in an online study ( 2x2 between subjects design . n = 244 ) , we
   compared a constraint based recipe recommender , with feature based pe , to
   a collaborative filtering recipe recommender with rating based pe . recipes
   were either annotated with a multiple traffic light nutrition label ( i . e
   . the boost ) , or not ( i . e . , baseline ) . we found that boosts led to
   healthier recipe choices across both methods of pe . moreover , we found
   users to be less satisfied with the constraint based pe , while this may
   depend on the user s level of health consciousness . 2022 copyright for this
   paper by its authors . use permitted under creative commons license
   attribution 4.0 international ( cc by 4.0 )
DE digital nudges; food recommendations; health; nutrition labels;
   personalization
ID collaborative filtering; recommender systems; constraint-based; creative
   commons; digital nudge; elicitation methods; feature-based; food
   recommendation; nutrition label; online studies; personalizations;
   preference elicitation; nutrition

---

UT 1971
AR Bonazzi R, 2021, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V12807 LNCS, P58, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-030-82405-1_7
TI AMRITA: Designing New Recipes for Phytonutrition
AU Bonazzi R; Vaz MC
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2021
AB in this paper , we describe a prototype , which is aimed at cooking chefs
   and that generates list of ingredients for recipes made of local plants . we
   focus on a specific type of cooking recipes based on plants , which are used
   in cultural food practices worldwide to support wellbeing ( ' phytonutrition
   ' ) . researchers in food technology have been successfully developing food
   recommenders but there is a gap concerning the notion of phytonutrition
   changes the set of required functions and the theoretical framework to
   assess the software . we describe an end to end support system for recipe
   design in compliance with european regulations concerning phytonutrients .
   results of a longitudinal test , which was done in a hotel in the alpine
   region , show that our software allows chefs to conceive a set of dishes ,
   which increase the satisfaction of customers
DE nutrition claim; phytonutrition; traditional food innovation
ID customer satisfaction; design; information systems; information use;
   software testing; alpine regions; cooking recipe; end to end; european
   regulation; support systems; theoretical framework; well being; cooking

---

UT 1972
AR Kumar CSP, 2026, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1839 LNNS, P419, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-032-18349-1_41
TI Smart Healthcare with Spark: Predicting Kidney Complications for Diabetic
   Patients and Personalized Diet Suggestions
AU Kumar CSP; Harika NV; Hannah PJ; Shaik F
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2026
AB early identification and proactive management of chronic conditions such as
   diabetes and kidney complications are essential for improving patient health
   outcomes . this work introduces a spark powered digital twin framework that
   integrates machine learning and deep learning models to enable accurate
   prediction and real time risk assessment . leveraging apache spark s
   distributed computing capabilities , the system significantly accelerates
   model training , reducing diabetes prediction time from 16 min to 810 s and
   kidney complication prediction time using tabnet from 89 min to 34 s . the
   framework achieves high prediction accuracy95 % and 91 % for diabetes using
   random forest and xgboost respectively , and 84 % for kidney complications
   using tabnet after tuning and ensembling . patients are categorized into
   high , moderate , or low risk levels based on predictive scores . to support
   individualized care , a hybrid food recommendation system combining content
   based and collaborative filtering methods is integrated , delivering 5 %
   coverage , 89 % mean average precision ( map ) , and a 70 % hit rate .
   deployed as a web application , the system offers timely alerts and
   personalized guidance , showcasing an efficient , scalable solution for
   intelligent and preventive healthcare
DE diabetes prediction; food recommendation; hybrid filtering; kidney
   complications assessment; risk classification
ID deep learning; distributed computer systems; forecasting; health care;
   learning systems; chronic conditions; diabetes prediction; diabetics
   patients; food recommendation; hybrid filtering; kidney complication
   assessment; patient health; prediction time; proactive management; risk
   classification; risk assessment

---

UT 1973
AR S A, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P389, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00037-0
TI Personalized nutrition: Artificial intelligence-driven approaches for
   tailoring functional foods to individual needs
AU S A; Hiregoudar S; CA R; Patiballa M; Packialakshmi JS; ML R
TC 1
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB in recent years , the field of nutrition has undergone a profound
   transformation with the integration of artificial intelligence ( ai ) and
   machine learning technologies . this abstract focuses on the new concept of
   personalized nutrition , which uses ai powered technologies to create
   customized functional foods to individual dietary needs and health goals in
   mind . departing from the traditional one size fits all approach ,
   personalized nutrition incorporates customized dietary recommendations that
   consider an individual s distinct genetic , metabolic , and lifestyle
   attributes . ai s transformative potential in healthcare and nutrition ,
   mirroring human cognitive processes , is facilitated by machine learning ,
   deep learning , neural networks , and natural language processing . ai
   driven personalized nutrition involves several key components . genetic
   analysis employs ai to identify genetic variations affecting nutrient
   metabolism , food sensitivities , and disease risk , enabling tailored
   dietary guidance based on individual genetic predispositions . dietary
   preferences restrictions are taken into account to create personalized meal
   plans , accommodating allergies , cultural or religious dietary requirements
   , and individual taste preferences . health and fitness data from devices
   like fitness trackers and health records inform ai recommendations ,
   aligning nutrition with an individual s activity level , weight goals , and
   health conditions . ai ensures continuous monitoring and adaptability to
   changing health and lifestyle conditions , while ai fine tunes macronutrient
   and micronutrient intake for each person ( nutrient optimization ) . ai
   powered food recommendation systems suggest foods and recipes aligned with
   personal nutrition profiles , considering health objectives and taste
   preferences . ai also contributes to the development of personalized
   functional foods and supplements . additionally , it offers behavioral
   support , including reminders and educational content , and plays a vital
   role in clinical research by uncovering links between genetics , diet , and
   health , leading to advancements in personalized nutrition . the potential
   benefits of personalized nutrition are wide ranging , including enhanced
   weight management , chronic disease prevention , improved athletic
   performance , and overall well being . furthermore , ai s application in
   this context has the potential to revolutionize the food industry by guiding
   the development of functional foods tailored to individual consumers
DE dietetics; health system; nutrition; nutrition specialty; personality
ID behavioral research; clinical research; cognitive systems; deep learning;
   diseases; functional food; learning systems; metabolism; nutrients;
   artificial intelligence learning; cognitive process; dietetic; functionals;
   health systems; learning neural networks; machine learning technology;
   machine learning; nutrition specialty; personality; nutrition

---

UT 1974
AR Vaishnavi J, 2025, PROC INT CONF IOT BASED CONTROL NETWORKS INTELL SYST
   ICICNIS, P679, DOI 10.1109/ICICNIS66685.2025.11315630
TI CHEFSPHERE : An AI-Powered Personalized Cooking and Recipe Platform
   Integrating Smart Kitchen Innovation and Sustainable Food Practices
AU Vaishnavi J; Dhivashya MR; Kavitha N; Swathi SP; Sangavi B
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF IOT BASED CONTROL NETWORKS INTELL SYST ICICNIS
PY 2025
AB the increased demand for customized food expe riences has boosted the
   adoption of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , smart kitchens , and
   interactive technologies in the food industry . chefsphere is a personalized
   cooking and lifestyle platform based on ai that facilitates recipe
   customization , meal planning , ingredients , and cooking techniques using
   cutting edge digital solutions . the platform leverages ai encouraged
   dietary analysis , personality based taste suggestions , and sustainable
   ingredient selection to optimize user enjoyment while encouraging
   sustainability . an integrated real time chef collaboration feature enables
   users to visualize , tune , and complete dishes in real time with culinary
   professionals . virtual coins , cooking challenges , and interactive mini
   games are gamification features that encourage ongoing user interaction and
   learning through communities . by tapping into ai algorithms , natural
   language processing , com puter vision , and recommendation systems ,
   chefsphere simplifies the recipe personalization process , minimizes food
   wastage , and enhances cooking efficiency . this article provides the
   conceptual design , technological model , and comparative assessment of
   chefsphere based on a comprehensive literature review of current ieee
   research in food recommendation systems , intelligent cooking technology ,
   and meal customization . the new model fills current gaps in multi cuisine
   personalization and the convergence of ai , ar , and gamification on cooking
   platforms , placing chef sphere as a next generation culinary
   personalization system for sustainable , interactive , and customer focused
   personalization
DE artificial intelligence; augmented reality; customized cooking; food
   technology; sustainable food design
ID conceptual design; cooking; food ingredients; gamification; kitchens;
   recommender systems; sustainable development; user interfaces;
   customization; customized cooking; cutting edges; food designs; food
   industries; gamification; interactive technology; personalizations; real-
   time; sustainable food design; artificial intelligence; augmented reality

---

UT 1975
AR Arabella Matulessy S, 2024, INT CONF DATA SCI APPL ICODSA, P403, DOI
   10.1109/ICoDSA62899.2024.10651995
TI Food Recommendation with Balanced Nutrition Using Context-Aware Knowledge-
   Base
AU Arabella Matulessy S; Baizal ZKA
TC 4
SO INT CONF DATA SCI APPL ICODSA
PY 2024
AB the food recommender system plays a crucial role in providing solutions for
   the community , as there are many food choices available in society .
   however , the lack of attention to the nutritional value of the foods we
   consume can lead to obesity . the increasing prevalence of obesity worldwide
   is an urgent problem that needs to be addressed . obesity is a serious issue
   as it can cause various dangerous diseases such as diabetes ,
   atherosclerosis , cholesterol , and even cancer . this necessitates the need
   for a food recommender system that considers not only user preferences but
   also nutritional needs . this research aims to develop a food recommender
   system for various age groups that consider the nutritional needs , diseases
   , and allergies that the user is suffering from . therefore , we propose a
   knowledge based context aware approach to building a food recommender system
   . the proposed recommender system utilizes a chatbot to facilitate user s
   interactions with the system . the system leverages information from the
   internal context about user characteristics such as age , gender , height ,
   weight , activity level , and medical history . additionally , the
   information on external context relates to food types and recent weather .
   there are 11 types of food that are recommended . each recommended food is
   tailored to user preferences and nutritional needs . testing results of our
   proposed system show high accuracy , with an f1-score reaching 0.97
DE knowledge based context-aware system; knowledge based recommender system;
   ontology; recommender system; semantic web rule language
ID context-aware; context-aware systems; knowledge based; knowledge based
   context-aware system; knowledge based recommender systems; ontologys; rules
   languages; semantic web rule language; semantic web rules; user preferences

---

UT 1976
AR Rostami M/1, 2024, NEUROCOMPUTING, V576, DOI 10.1016/j.neucom.2024.127326
TI A novel healthy food recommendation to user groups based on a deep social
   community detection approach
AU Rostami M/1; Berahmand K; Forouzandeh S; Ahmadian S; Farrahi V; Oussalah M
TC 39
SO NEUROCOMPUTING
PY 2024
AB existing food recommendation models have typically suggested foods or
   recipes to single users . however , in reality , users may be members of a
   group , family , or community , requiring food recommendation systems to
   support the whole group . food recommendations to groups are a more
   challenging task than food recommendations to individuals , as each person s
   preferences in the group should be addressed before giving the
   recommendations . suggesting healthy food is also important in a food
   recommendation system , given that unhealthy diets can lead to different
   diseases . to address these challenges , a new healthy group food
   recommendation system based on deep social community detection and user
   popularity is developed in this study . to this end , an innovative deep
   community detection approach based on feature learning and deep neural
   networks is developed using the calculated time aware user similarity
   measure . in addition , a health aware rate prediction measurement , which
   considers both group preferences and health factors , is developed .
   different experiments are designed on two real food social networks to
   specify the efficiency of the suggested model , and the results indicate
   that it enhanced the single user and group satisfaction metrics
DE community detection; deep learning; food recommendation; group
   recommendation; recommender systems
ID deep neural networks; population dynamics; community detection; deep
   learning; detection approach; food recommendation; group recommendations;
   group-based; healthy foods; single users; social communities; user groups;
   article; benchmarking; community; controlled study; deep learning; deep
   neural network; diagnosis; family; food; human; learning; prediction;
   prescription; productivity; satisfaction; social network; unhealthy diet;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1977
AR Jayaswal R, 2025, LIFE CYCLE RELIAB SAF ENG, V14, P491, DOI
   10.1007/s41872-025-00315-8
TI Smart food choices: the role of reliable and safe AI in nutrition
   recommender systems
AU Jayaswal R; Ansari MA; Mewada A
TC 2
SO LIFE CYCLE RELIAB SAF ENG
PY 2025
AB inappropriate food consumption can lead to various medical problems and
   illnesses . individuals usually lean on drugs instead of taking preventative
   action in their food consumption due to a lack of sufficient knowledge about
   healthy nutrition . the impact of well established applications on clinical
   outcomes is still not completely known . a major share of the worldwide
   population has already become overweight , which is resulting in a variety
   of ailments caused by bad eating habits , such as increasing consumption of
   high energy and high fat foods . thus , to address this , a diet
   recommendation system will likely provide a better solution for people s
   healthy eating habits . this study provides a unifying paradigm for food
   recommendation systems and discusses key challenges impacting them , such as
   incorporating different contexts and domain information . we examine
   existing solutions to these problems before elaborating on research
   constraints and future initiatives in this subject . the author ( s ) ,
   under exclusive license to society for reliability and safety ( sresa ) 2025
   .
DE caloric requirements; dietary suggestions; health and wellness; multi-sensor
   fusion; nutrition recommender systems; personalized meal preferences

---

UT 1978
AR Nadia D, 2024, IEEE INT CONF AFR FED OPER RES SOC AFROS - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/AFROS62115.2024.11036918
TI Collaborative Recommendation Systems for Allergic Individuals
AU Nadia D; Nawal S-H; Hicham R; Djihad H; Djebouri M; Tami A
TC 0
SO IEEE INT CONF AFR FED OPER RES SOC AFROS - PROC
PY 2024
AB a recommendation system for food allergies based on collaborative filtering
   is a valuable tool for providing personalized suggestions to individuals
   with specific dietary restrictions due to allergies . its goal is to help
   users choose foods that match their preferences and nutritional needs while
   avoiding allergens . this system falls under the broader category of
   recommendation systems and is used in a variety of sectors , including e
   commerce and digital health . this study aims to design a food
   recommendation system based on collaborative filtering for allergic
   individuals in order to offer them a more personalized and effective
   culinary experience that addresses their health issues . to achieve this ,
   we employed several machine learning algorithms , including k means , fuzzy
   c means , minibatch k means , and dbscan , to identify the one that best
   suits our case . the results obtained show that our system provides relevant
   , personalized recommendations
DE allergy; and collaborative filtering; gastronomy; machine learning;
   recommendation system
ID collaborative filtering; collaborative learning; fuzzy systems; information
   systems; k-means clustering; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; nutrition; and collaborative filtering; c-means; collaborative
   recommendation system; e- commerces; food allergies; gastronomy; health
   issues; k-means; machine learning algorithms; machine learning; recommender
   systems

---

UT 1979
AR De Pessemier T, 2013, RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST, P209, DOI
   10.1145/2507157.2507198
TI A food recommender for patients in a care facility
AU De Pessemier T; Dooms S; Martens L
TC 19
SO RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST
PY 2013
AB in this research , a food recommendation strategy for patients in a care
   facility is proposed . since many of these patients can not express their
   personal preferences , a recommender system can assist the caregivers in the
   selection of the menu items that match the patients preferences .
   recommendations are generated based on three information sources : explicit
   ratings for menu items , implicit feedback based on the patient s eating
   behavior and the amount of food that was eaten , and inferred preferences
   for the ingredients of the menu items . in addition , monitoring the amount
   of food that was eaten by each patient can provide insights into the optimal
   amount of each menu item that has to be served to each patient . furthermore
   , monitoring food consumption allows to detect irregularities in the eating
   behavior of the patient , which can be a symptom of illness
DE food; implicit feedback; recommender system
ID eating behavior; explicit ratings; feedback based; implicit feedback;
   information sources; menu items; monitoring foods; patient preferences;
   personal preferences; recommendation strategies; food ingredients

---

UT 1980
AR Roshaan JS, 2025, PROC INT CONF INVEN COMPUT INFORMATICS ICICI, P387, DOI
   10.1109/ICICI65870.2025.11069632
TI An Emotion-Aware Recipe Generation Framework Using Distilbert and Large
   Language Models
AU Roshaan JS; Srisanjana K; Madhumitha D; Shivanandham RS; Subha R; Ananthi S
TC 1
SO PROC INT CONF INVEN COMPUT INFORMATICS ICICI
PY 2025
AB traditional food recommendation systems often provide static meal
   suggestions based on previous user behavior , without the ability to develop
   tailored recipes based on current emotional states . this study presents an
   emotion aware recipe generating framework that dynamically generates
   personalized culinary recommendations based on user provided emotional
   inputs . the system uses a pre trained distilbert model for sentiment
   classification and keyword based food concept mapping to match emotions to
   relevant food categories . these inputs are subsequently processed by falcon
   7b instruct , a big language model , which uses rapid engineering to
   generate entire , structured recipes in plain language that include both
   ingredients and preparation instructions . unlike existing methods that rely
   on curated food databases , our approach makes use of the generative
   capabilities of large language models ( llms ) to provide context sensitive
   , emotionally meaningful recipe recommendations . the overarching goal is to
   improve user engagement and fulfillment by tailoring nutritional
   recommendations to individual emotional states , resulting in a novel
   junction of affective computing and customized nutrition
DE ai recipe generation; food recommendation; large language models ( llm );
   natural language processing ( nlp ); sentiment analysis
ID behavioral research; computational linguistics; food chemistry; food
   ingredients; human computer interaction; nutrition; recommender systems; ai
   recipe generation; emotional state; food recommendation; language model;
   language processing; large language model; natural language processing;
   natural languages; sentiment analysis; traditional food; sentiment analysis

---

UT 1981
AR Zhang L/2, 2025, ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL, V162, DOI
   10.1016/j.engappai.2025.112449
TI Research on the application of attention mechanism based multi-model fusion
   in food recommendation platforms
AU Zhang L/2; Hang L
TC 1
SO ENG APPL ARTIF INTELL
PY 2025
AB smartphone based food ordering has greatly enhanced convenience in daily
   life , and the rise of recommendation systems has transformed the
   functionality and user experience of food delivery applications .
   innovations in recommendation algorithms and models have significantly
   improved the efficiency of food , merchant , and advertisement
   recommendations on food platforms , leading to higher transaction rates and
   greater user satisfaction . to further enhance recommendation efficiency ,
   this study introduces a novel multi model fusion recommendation architecture
   based on the multi head self attention mechanism , utilizing a two tier
   structure . the first tier model ( the attention based homogeneous autoint
   model ) acts as a teacher to guide the training of the second tier
   transformer model . this hierarchical approach integrates multiple models
   through knowledge distillation , significantly improving the accuracy of the
   recommendation system . the complexity and performance of the proposed
   architecture were analyzed and applied in a production environment . testing
   on a private dataset reveals that the proposed multi model fusion
   recommendation architecture significantly enhances recommendation
   performance across various food platform scenarios , achieving an accuracy
   of 0.7643 , recall of 0.8262 , and an f1 score of 0.7936. these results
   surpass the performance of current state of the art models . therefore , the
   proposed architecture is not only highly applicable to food recommendation
   systems but also has broad applicability in other fields such as retail and
   entertainment
DE attention algorithm; autoint; food platform; recommendation algorithm;
   transformer
ID architecture; hierarchical systems; personnel training; recommender systems;
   statistical tests; teaching; user experience; user interfaces; attention
   algorithm; attention mechanisms; autoint; food platform; mechanism-based;
   multi-model fusion; performance; proposed architectures; recommendation
   algorithms; transformer; efficiency

---

UT 1982
AR Mittal R, 2022, PROC INT CONF CONTEMP COMPUT INFORMATICS IC3I, P1784, DOI
   10.1109/IC3I56241.2022.10072763
TI DFR-HL: Diabetic Food Recommendation Using Hybrid Learning Methods
AU Mittal R; Malik V/1; Singh SV
TC 39
SO PROC INT CONF CONTEMP COMPUT INFORMATICS IC3I
PY 2022
AB diabetes affects a large number of people in modern culture . individuals
   must keep track of food calories and total calories consumed daily to
   maintain a balanced diet . type 2 diabetes is a devastating metabolic
   illness that may manifest in many symptoms and complications throughout the
   body . in the modern day , diabetics may be found throughout all age groups
   in society . the increased number of reported diabetes patients may be
   attributed to different causes , including but not limited to harmful or
   chemical components blended into the food , obesity , working culture and
   improper diet plan , atypical lifestyle , consuming food habits , and
   environmental variables . as a result , saving human life requires a proper
   diagnosis of diabetes . when used in the healthcare industry , machine
   learning techniques may help doctors foresee the onset of diabetes and other
   complications . this research proposes the diabetic food recommendation
   system ( dfr hl ) to identify diabetes and advice patients on managing their
   condition via diet ( dfrs ) . the datasets are normalized using a standard
   scalar with an improved decision tree ( idt ) , and the feature is selected
   using a random forest . finally , the classification has been done with
   hybrid ( cnn with resnet50 ) dl algorithms . the experimental results are
   compared with performance metrics
DE cnn with resnet50; diabetes; food recommendation; prediction
ID diagnosis; learning systems; age groups; balanced diet; chemical component;
   cnn with resnet50; diabetes patients; food recommendation; hybrid learning
   methods; keep track of; number of peoples; type-2 diabetes; decision trees

---

UT 1983
AR Budhiraja S, 2025, INT CONF ARTIF INTELL MACH VIS AIMV, DOI
   10.1109/AIMV66517.2025.11203599
TI AI-Driven Indian Cuisine Recommender for Health-Conscious Foodies
AU Budhiraja S; Batra N; Rani S; Dixit R; Garg A; Tyagi P/1
TC 0
SO INT CONF ARTIF INTELL MACH VIS AIMV
PY 2025
AB food recommendation systems are made to make recommendations based on the
   user s diet , food preferences , and other factors . websites now contain
   millions of recipes . still , the user can not decide which recipes to
   prepare with the items they already had . in these situations , the user has
   the difficulty of independently determining recipes using the ingredients at
   hand . there are several varieties of indian delicacies that have the same
   components . the quantity of traditional recipes in india is determined by
   the local availability of spices , fruits , vegetables , and herbs .
   understanding the components and cooking method is essential . many times ,
   people wish to try something new but lack the supplies in their houses .
   there is also a lot of misunderstanding about what to produce with the
   ingredients right now . for a variety of reasons , there might be not be
   enough time to get more materials from the markets . the last remaining
   choice is to use every component that is accessible . based on consumers
   historical preferences for particular dishes , the indian recipe
   recommendation system makes recommendations for new , untried cuisines .
   this analysis presents a novel ingredient based system for recommending
   healthy indian cuisine recipes . the main objective is to offer healthy
   dishes to customers depending on the ingredients that are available .
   appropriate recipes are suggested using the cosine similarity . the
   performance precision , recall , and success rate of this system are
   assessed using three criteria
DE and ingredients; cuisine types; culinary suggestions; nutrition; recipes
ID agri-food; artificial intelligence; cooking; food chemistry; food
   ingredients; recommender systems; spice; and ingredient; component methods;
   cooking methods; cosine similarity; cuisine type; culinary suggestion; food
   preference; health conscious; recipe; nutrition

---

UT 1984
AR Liu Y/7, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P11, DOI 10.1145/3357729.3357736
TI Characterizing and predicting repeat food consumption behavior for just-in-
   time interventions
AU Liu Y/7; Lim E-P; Lee H/1; Cheng T-L; Achananuparp P; Lin S-D
TC 6
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB human beings are creatures of habit . in their daily life , people tend to
   repeatedly consume similar types of food items over several days and
   occasionally switch to consuming different types of items when the
   consumptions become overly monotonous . however , the novel and repeat
   consumption behaviors have not been studied in food recommendation research
   . more importantly , the ability to predict daily eating habits of
   individuals is crucial to improve the effectiveness of food recommender
   systems in facilitating healthy lifestyle change . in this study , we
   analyze the patterns of repeat food consumptions using large scale
   consumption data from a popular online fitness community called myfitnesspal
   ( mfp ) , conduct an offline evaluation of various state of the art
   algorithms in predicting the next day food consumption , and analyze their
   performance across different demographic groups and contexts . the
   experiment results show that algorithms incorporating the exploration and
   exploitation and temporal dynamics are more effective in the next day
   recommendation task than most state of the art algorithms
DE food recommendation; implicit feedback; repeat consumption
ID food supply; daily lives; eating habits; food consumption; food
   recommendation; healthy lifestyles; human being; implicit feedback; just-in-
   time; repeat consumption; state of the art algorithms; forecasting

---

UT 1985
AR Elsweiler D, 2015, CEUR WORK PROC, V1533, P33
TI Bringing the "healthy" into food recommenders
AU Elsweiler D; Harvey M; Ludwig B; Said A
TC 43
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2015
AB in this position statement we have discussed recommender systems in the con
   text of healthy nutrition . although recommender systems have previously
   been proposed as useful tools for helping people achieve a balanced diet ,
   past work has focused purely on estimating what dishes people will like .
   here we have out lined two ways in which the recommendation problem can be
   reformulated to incorporate aspects of healthy nutrition and demonstrated
   how these approaches may be implemented . additionally , we showed that the
   recipe ratings data sup plied by users of a recommender system can be used
   to highlight users who may benefit most from technical assistance .
ID behavioral research; decision making; nutrition; balanced diet; technical
   assistance; two ways; recommender systems

---

UT 1986
AR Achuthan A, 2024, MALAYS J MED HEAL SCI, V20, P196, DOI
   10.47836/mjmhs.20.2.26
TI MyPlate: A Diet Monitoring and Recommender Application
AU Achuthan A; Yii SH; Alkhafaji AFMA
TC 1
SO MALAYS J MED HEAL SCI
PY 2024
AB introduction : diet monitoring is of great interest in practicing a healthy
   diet to ensure good health by keeping track of the type and amount of food
   consumed . the food recommender system could provide personalized
   suggestions about food choices that best suit user preferences , making diet
   monitoring a valuable tool for maintaining good health , preventing diseases
   , and achieving a balanced lifestyle . methods : this article presents a
   diet monitoring and recommender android mobile application utilizing a mask
   region based convolutional neural network ( mask rcnn ) and portion analysis
   with a content based filtering recommender algorithm . the application ,
   named myplate , will provide a daily calorie limit and nutrition guidelines
   based on the user profile record , such as current and ideal weight . at the
   same time , myplate can also perform food image recognition and portion
   analysis from the picture captured and estimate the total calories . finally
   , myplate provides a personalized food intake recommendation based on the
   previous intake record . results : the developed myplate application can
   achieve accurate food image recognition , with the mean average precision at
   0.825. besides that , the proposed myplate application can perform portion
   analysis and provide food recommendations based on intake history at 80 %
   similarity . conclusion : the proposed myplate android application has shown
   the effectiveness of incorporating machine intelligence into a diet
   monitoring technique that can promote healthy eating habits in the community
   . 2024 universiti putra malaysia press
DE content-based filtering; image recognition; mask region-based convolutional
   neural network ( mask-rcnn ); portion analysis; recommender application

---

UT 1987
AR Trattner C, 2017, INT WORLD WIDE WEB CONF WWW, P489, DOI
   10.1145/3038912.3052573
TI Investigating the healthiness of internet-sourced recipes implications for
   meal planning and recommender systems
AU Trattner C; Elsweiler D
TC 149
SO INT WORLD WIDE WEB CONF WWW
PY 2017
AB food recommenders have the potential to positively influence the eating
   habits of users . to achieve this , however , we need to understand how
   healthy recommendations are and the factors which influence this . focusing
   on two approaches from the literature ( single item and daily meal plan
   recommendation ) and utilizing a large internet sourced dataset from
   allrecipes . com , we show how algorithmic solutions relate to the
   healthiness of the underlying recipe collection . first , we analyze the
   healthiness of allrecipes . com recipes using nutritional standards from the
   world health organization and the united kingdom food standards agency .
   second , we investigate user interaction patterns and how these relate to
   the healthiness of recipes . third , we experiment with both recommendation
   approaches . our results indicate that overall the recipes in the collection
   are quite unhealthy , but this varies across categories on the website .
   users in general tend to interact most often with the least healthy recipes
   . recommender algorithms tend to score popular items highly and thus on
   average promote unhealthy items . this can be tempered , however , with
   simple post filtering approaches , which we show by experiment are better
   suited to some algorithms than others . similarly , we show that the
   generation of meal plans can dramatically increase the number of healthy
   options open to users . one of the main findings is , nevertheless , that
   the utility of both approaches is strongly restricted by the recipe
   collection . based on our findings we draw conclusions how researchers
   should attempt to make food recommendation systems promote healthy nutrition
   . 2017 international world wide web conference committee ( iw3c2 ) .
DE meal planning; online recipes; public health; recommender systems
ID nutrition; public health; recommender systems; world wide web; algorithmic
   solutions; eating habits; food standards agency; online recipes; post-
   filtering; recommender algorithms; united kingdom; user interaction; online
   systems

---

UT 1988
AR Outfarouin A, 2023, INDONES J ELECTR ENG COMPUT SCI, V31, P1088, DOI
   10.11591/ijeecs.v31.i2.pp1088-1098
TI Towards a new healthy food decision-making system
AU Outfarouin A; Laaffat N
TC 3
SO INDONES J ELECTR ENG COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB latterly , food recommendation systems have received high attention due to
   their importance to healthy living . on the recommendation domain , most
   studies focus on recommendations that suggest healthy products for each user
   based on their profiles . these types of recommender systems offer
   additional functionality to persuade users to change their buying behavior
   profitably . however , these systems must highlight the health preferences
   of the users and their health problems must be adequately taken into account
   . in this work , healthy food products recommender systems ( rs ) are our
   interest study and more specifically using content based filtering . we
   represented this content by the food product composition . our goal was to
   provide a healthy recommendation to consumers or citizens around the world ,
   especially at this time when disease abounds . thus , we developed our new
   healthy recommendation system ( hrs ) . in this paper , we present a new
   recommendation process for individuals in the area of healthy eating .
   furthermore , we analyze the existing state of the art in recommender system
   techniques and implement an algorithm that responds to this new process with
   very satisfactory results from the beginning , to conclude we discuss the
   research challenges related to the development of this kind of hrs
DE decision making; ehealth; product profiling; recommender systems; user
   profiling

---

UT 1989
AR Patil V/1, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1159, P173, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-97-8526-1_14
TI Smart e-Menu with AI-Based Food Recommendation
AU Patil V/1; Patil V; Patil RY; Mhaske A; Fulari A; Pawar C
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB traditionally , restaurant service has been reactive , requiring direct
   interaction with waitstaff . however , an ideal service prioritizes the
   customer , proactively identifying their preferences and history to deliver
   personalized recommendations . this paper explores the integration of
   various machine learning algorithms to develop an intelligent e menu system
   that achieves this goal . the research delves into the rise of ' smart e
   menu ' systems utilizing artificial intelligence ( ai ) for food
   recommendations . we provide an overview of various ai techniques , their
   applications , and their impact on customer satisfaction , operational
   efficiency , and revenue generation within the food service sector .
   additionally , we review significant works in the field of menu digitization
   and food recommendation systems . this study contributes to the
   understanding of how ai powered e menus can personalize the dining
   experience , ultimately leading to increased customer satisfaction ,
   operational efficiency , and revenue generation for restaurants
DE artificial intelligence; collaborative filtering; content-based filtering;
   machine learning; matrix factorization
ID content-based filtering; customers satisfaction; direct interactions;
   machine learning algorithms; machine learning; matrix factorizations; menu
   systems; operational efficiencies; personalized recommendation; revenue
   generation; customer satisfaction

---

UT 1990
AR Barranco MJ, 2025, J UNIVERS COMPUT SCI, V31, P239, DOI 10.3897/jucs.150833
TI A preference-based daily meal recommendation framework for patients with
   diabetes
AU Barranco MJ; Yera R; Martínez FJ
TC 0
SO J UNIVERS COMPUT SCI
PY 2025
AB in recent years , food recommendation systems have garnered significant
   attention from internet users seeking diets that are both appealing and
   health promoting . for individuals managing chronic conditions such as
   diabetes , personalized food recommendations that consider both individual
   preferences and nutritional requirements could potentially yield substantial
   benefits in maintaining an appropriate dietary regimen . even though
   previous research works have been covered the problem of food recommendation
   for the diabetes domain , they suffer from an insufficient use of the
   corresponding domain knowledge , and from a deficient management of user
   preferences in this process . this study then presents a novel preference
   based food recommendation framework specifically adapted for patients with
   diabetes , and that mitigates such previous gaps . experimental findings
   suggest that within this context , a balance can be achieved between
   appealing and health promotion , resulting in nutritionally appropriate
   menus that simultaneously align with users preferences . 2025 , iicm
DE diabetes; food recommendation; pareto frontier; user preferences

---

UT 1991
AR Goel M, 2024, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2009 CCIS, P231, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-58181-6_20
TI Dish Detection in Indian Food Platters: A Computational Framework for Diet
   Management
AU Goel M; Dargar S; Ghatak S; Verma N; Chauhan P/1; Gupta A/2; Vishnumolakala
   N; Amuru H; Gambhir E; Chhajed R; Jain M/1; Jain A/4; Garg S; Bagler G
TC 1
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2024
AB diet is central to the epidemic of lifestyle disorders . accurate and
   effortless diet logging is one of the significant bottlenecks for effective
   diet management and calorie restriction . dish detection is a challenging
   problem in indian platters due to a visually complex traditional food layout
   . we present a comparative analysis of deep learning based object detection
   models for the 61 most popular indian dishes . rooted in a meticulous
   compilation of 68,005 platter images with 134,814 manual dish annotations ,
   we first compare ten architectures for multi label classification to
   identify resnet152 ( map = 84.51 % ) as the best model . yolov8x ( map =
   87.70 % ) emerged as the best model architecture for dish detection among
   the eight deep learning models implemented after a thorough performance
   evaluation . by comparing with the state of the art model for the
   indianfood10 dataset , we demonstrate the superior object detection
   performance of yolov8x for this subset and establish resnet152 as the best
   architecture for multi label classification . the models trained on such a
   rich dataset have diverse applications for diet logging , food
   recommendation systems , nutritional interventions , and mitigation of
   lifestyle disorders . the proposed computational framework is extendable to
   include staple dishes from across global cuisines
DE computer vision; deep learning; indian food platter; multi-label
   classification; object detection
ID classification ( of information ); computer vision; deep learning;
   nutrition; object recognition; best model; calorie restriction; comparative
   analyzes; computational framework; deep learning; detection models; indian
   food platter; multi-label classifications; objects detection; traditional
   food; object detection

---

UT 1992
AR Elsweiler D, 2015, RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST, P313, DOI
   10.1145/2792838.2799665
TI Towards automatic meal plan recommendations for balanced nutrition
AU Elsweiler D; Harvey M
TC 73
SO RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST
PY 2015
AB food recommenders have been touted as a useful tool to help people achieve a
   healthy diet . here we incorporate nutrition into the recommender problem by
   examining the feasibility of algorithmically creating daily meal plans for a
   sample of user profiles ( n=100 ) , combined with a diverse set of food
   preference data ( n=64 ) collected in a natural setting . our analyzes
   demonstrate it is possible to recommend plans for a large percentage of
   users which meet the guidelines set out by international health agencies
DE health; planning; prevention; recommender systems
ID food preference; healthy diet; international healths; preference data;
   prevention; user profiles; food ingredients

---

UT 1993
AR Bianchini D, 2016, PROC ITAL SYMP ADV DATABASE SYST SEBD, P318
TI Food recommendation based on semantic annotations and reference
   prescriptions: The SMART BREAK project
AU Bianchini D; De Antonellis V; Melchiori M
TC 0
SO PROC ITAL SYMP ADV DATABASE SYST SEBD
PY 2016
AB food recommendation , as well as searching for health related information ,
   presents specific characteristics if compared with conventional recommender
   systems , since it often has educational purposes , to improve behavioral
   habits of users . in this paper , we presents a food recommendation system
   that aims at addressing some of the above mentioned issues , using a recipe
   dataset and annotations to propose menus according to user s preferences .
   reference prescription schemes , e . g . , compliant with nutritional
   guidelines , are defined to prepare suggested choices . the recommender
   system has been developed in the context of the smart break project ,
   supported by a grant from regione lombardia in the field of ' smart cities
   and communities ' and related to the main topics of the 2015 world
   exposition ( expo2015 , milan , italy ) , where the university of brescia
   aimed at promoting healthy behavioral habits in nutrition . 2016 , sistemi
   evoluti per basi di dati ( sebd )
ID database systems; nutrition; search engines; semantics; smart city; health
   related informations; milan  italy; semantic annotations; user preferences;
   recommender systems

---

UT 1994
AR Balamurugan M, 2025, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN TECHNOL ICCCT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCT63501.2025.11019274
TI Enhancing Meal Recommendation Algorithms: A Contextual Approach to Machine
   Learning Calibration
AU Balamurugan M; Keshav A; Viswanathan S; Dinesh R
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN TECHNOL ICCCT
PY 2025
AB personalization has remained a very crucial aspect of present day business
   strategies as corporations begin to increasingly use the data and machine
   learning to personalize experiences toward individual users . this paper
   explores designing a food recommendation system catering to each user s
   personalized preferences . the system assimilates various inputs gathered
   from different users , incorporating dietary restrictions , time , and
   prevailing weather conditions , while facilitating context aware
   recommendations coherent with the meal choices adopted by the users . these
   two methodologies are core to this system : content based filtering and
   collaborative filtering . the content based filtering methodology suggests
   items based on the characteristics of food items , which might be similar to
   previously enjoyed dishes by the user . the algorithm suggests meals based
   on the specific features of the user s taste profile , thus ensuring that
   suggestions are highly relevant to his established preferences . in contrast
   , collaborative filtering is an even broader approach to analyze the
   patterns and selection habits of other users within the system . it
   identifies individuals who have the same taste profile and uses their
   selections to make recommendations for food . based on the group of
   collective preferences among all the users , collaborative filtering will
   expose the new user to dishes they might never have discovered but will most
   probably enjoy since they are derived from common tastes . to make the
   personalization of food recommendations even more specific , the system
   integrates k nearest neighbors , commonly known as knn . it measures the
   similarity between the users based on their previous interactions , ratings
   for their meals , and preferences and selects the k users whose tastes are
   the closest to those of the current user , thus making a cluster of like
   minded people . it checks out the favorite food items of those neighboring
   users to produce suggestions that resonate with this user s palate . in this
   way , the technique adds another layer of precision to the suggestions so
   that it becomes more aligned with the specific tastes of the user . this
   technique combined helps deliver an extremely personalized food
   recommendation experience . with content based filtering s focus on the
   characteristics of individual dishes , insights into user behavior by
   collaborative filtering , and precise similarity analysis results through
   knn , the recommendation produced will be more specific to a person s
   preference while at the same time adjusted to time and weather , making this
   holistic approach improve the experience of the users as it enhances their
   interaction and satisfaction levels because the users get the most
   appropriate meal recommendations to their taste and circumstance
ID behavioral research; clustering algorithms; learning algorithms; learning
   systems; machine learning; nearest neighbor search; recommender systems;
   user profile; broader approach; business strategy; condition; content-based
   filtering; context-aware recommendations; it identify; item-based; machine
   learning; personalizations; recommendation algorithms; collaborative
   filtering

---

UT 1995
AR Matsuoka R, 2025, PROC - IEEE INT CONF PERFORM COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INT CONF
   DATA SCI SYST IEEE INT CONF SMART CITY IEEE INT CONF DEPENDABILITY SENS
   CLOUD BIG DATA SYST APPL IEEE INT CONF EMBED SOFTW SYST
   HPCC/DSS/SMARTCITY/DEPENDSYS/ICESS, P864, DOI 10.1109/HPCC67675.2025.00128
TI GNN-Enhanced Multimodal Fusion with Contrastive Learning for Smart Health
   Oriented High Performance Recommendation System
AU Matsuoka R; Inoshita K; Zhou X/2; Zheng Z; Kawai A; Yada K
TC 0
SO PROC - IEEE INT CONF PERFORM COMPUT COMMUN IEEE INT CONF DATA SCI SYST IEEE
   INT CONF SMART CITY IEEE INT CONF DEPENDABILITY SENS CLOUD BIG DATA SYST
   APPL IEEE INT CONF EMBED SOFTW SYST HPCC/DSS/SMARTCITY/DEPENDSYS/ICESS
PY 2025
AB in today s information rich society , where users are inundated with vast
   multi sourced data , recommendation system which may focus more on users
   lifestyle preferences becomes increasingly significant , especially when
   providing well being oriented daily living support . however , it still
   relies on limited data , overlooking complex relationships between user
   context , behavior , and item attributes , which often fails to provide
   truly personalized suggestions , and lifestyle aware optimization remains
   underdeveloped . in this study , we propose a graph neural network ( gnn )
   -enhanced multimodal fusion with contrastive learning model , called gnnmf
   cl , which can be applied to pursue high performance in smart systems based
   on multimodal learning from integrated visual , text , and user s lifestyle
   information etc . specifically , a food recommendation system for smart
   health is designed and built , which extracts visual features using resnet
   50 , encodes lifestyle features through contrastive learning based on vlm
   generated captions and nutritional information , and captures taste
   preference features via graph attention network ( gat ) . in addition , a
   heterogeneous graph transformer ( hgt ) is developed to improve the
   multimodal feature fusion , and the five loss functions are defined to
   jointly optimize high order neighborhood relations and ranking of
   recommended items in model training . experiments and evaluations on the
   allrecipes dataset demonstrate that our proposed model significantly
   outperforms other existing methods , in achieving high performance
   recommendations that align with users health goals and contribute to broader
   applications in the smart health domain
DE contrastive learning; graph neural network; multi-modal fusion;
   recommendation system; smart health
ID behavioral research; contrastive learning; graph neural networks;
   information fusion; learning systems; complex relationships; daily living;
   graph neural networks; limited data; multi-modal fusion; optimizations;
   performance; smart health; user context; well being; recommender systems

---

UT 1996
AR Starke A, 2021, CEUR WORK PROC, V2959
TI The cholesterol factor: Balancing accuracy and health in recipe
   recommendation through a nutrient-specific metric
AU Starke A; Trattner C; Bakken H; Johannessen M; Solberg V
TC 8
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2021
AB whereas many food recommender systems optimize for users preferences ,
   health is another but often overlooked objective . this paper aims to
   recommend relevant recipes that avoid nutrients that contribute to high
   levels of cholesterol , such as saturated fat and sugar . we introduce a
   novel metric called the cholesterol factor , based on nutritional guidelines
   from the norwegian directorate of health , that can balance accuracy and
   health through linear re weighting in post filtering . we tested popular
   recommender approaches by evaluating a recipe dataset from allrecipes . com
   , in which a cf based svd method outperformed content based and hybrid
   methods . although we found that increasing the healthiness of a recommended
   recipe set came at the cost of precision and recall metrics , only putting
   little weight ( 10-15 % ) on our cholesterol factor can significantly
   improve the healthiness of a recommendation set with minimal accuracy losses
DE health; nutrients; offline evaluation; recipes; recommender systems
ID cholesterol; health; nutrients; content-based methods; hybrid method;
   offline evaluation; post-filtering; precision and recall; re-weighting;
   recipe; saturated fats; svd method; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 1997
AR Miranda R, 2019, INT CONF ENG APPL ICEA - PROC, DOI
   10.1109/CEAP.2019.8883496
TI Intelligent Nutrition in Healthcare and Continuous Care
AU Miranda R; Ferreira D; Abelha A; MacHado J
TC 9
SO INT CONF ENG APPL ICEA - PROC
PY 2019
AB in the healthcare industry , the patient s nutrition is a key factor in
   their treatment process . every user has their own specific nutritional
   needs and requirements . an appropriate nutrition policy can therefore help
   the patient s recovery process and alleviate possible symptoms . food
   recommender systems are platforms that offer personalized suggestions of
   recipes to users . however , there is a lack of usage of recipe
   recommendation systems in the healthcare sector . multiple challenges in
   representing the domain of food and the patient s needs make it complicated
   to implement these systems . the present project aims to develop a platform
   for an intelligent planning of the user s meals , based on their clinical
   conditions . the application of machine learning algorithms on nutrition ,
   in healthcare services and continuous care is thus a key topic of research .
   this platform will be tested and deployed at the social cafeteria of vila
   verde ( cantina social da santa casa da misericordia de vila verde ) . the
   development of this project will use the design science research ( dsr )
   investigation methodology , ensuring that the solution to the problem
   accomplishes all needs and requirements of the professionals , while
   elucidating new knowledge both for the institution and the scientific
   community
DE decision support systems; machine learning; meal planning; recommender
   systems
ID decision support systems; learning algorithms; learning systems; machine
   learning; patient rehabilitation; patient treatment; recommender systems;
   clinical conditions; design science researches ( dsr ); healthcare industry;
   healthcare sectors; healthcare services; intelligent planning; scientific
   community; treatment process; nutrition

---

UT 1998
AR Zhang B, 2024, LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST, V37, P127, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-56521-2_11
TI Multi-layer Cross-Scale Coupling Feature Pyramid Network for Food Logo
   Detection
AU Zhang B; Hou S; Zhao S/2; Hou Q; Li X/15; Yan W/1
TC 0
SO LEARN ANAL INTELL SYST
PY 2024
AB food logos typically serve as a visual representation of a food brand or
   product by using unique and recognizable images or graphics that are related
   to the brand or product , such as food items , utensils , or cooking
   equipment . the study of food logos has important real world applications ,
   such as in food safety , self service shops , food recommendation systems ,
   and food brand management . although detection technology is developing
   rapidly , these techniques generally suffer from the issue of small logos .
   small food logos usually have fewer pixels , making it difficult to extract
   discriminative features . to address this problem , a multi layer cross
   scale coupling feature pyramid network ( mccfp net ) is proposed , which can
   enhance semantic information by coupling multi layer features . specifically
   , the cross scale connections break through the limitations imposed by
   neighboring nodes , enabling the learning of more fundamental features and
   higher level semantics . moreover , to address the problem of similar
   appearance of different logo categories in classification tasks , the
   feature transformation offset and weight ( ftow ) is designed to adaptively
   change the feature regions and assign feature weights . additionally , side
   aware boundary localization ( sabl ) is adopted to locate the small food
   logo objects more precisely . extensive experimental results demonstrate the
   effectiveness of our proposed mccfp net
DE feature coupling; feature pyramid; food logo detection; small food logo
   detection
ID semantics; coupling feature; feature coupling; feature pyramid; food logo
   detection; logo detections; multilayers; pyramid network; small food logo
   detection; visual representations; feature extraction

---

UT 1999
AR Liu C/5, 2019, ACM INT CONF PROC SER, P92, DOI 10.1145/3358528.3359551
TI Application of recommender system in intelligent community under big data
   scenario
AU Liu C/5; Chen Z/5; Cao D; Shang M
TC 1
SO ACM INT CONF PROC SER
PY 2019
AB nowadays , intelligent community is one of indispensable parts in social
   construction . the construction of intelligent community promotes the
   construction and development of intelligent city , which can improve
   residents living quality . eating is an important part inhuman lives . in
   this paper , we develop a food recommendation system . this system is based
   on big data , association rule based recommendation and collaborative
   filtering recommendation . by analyzing a large number of historical user
   behaviors , this system recommends restaurants , supermarkets , recipes and
   meal delivery service
DE big data; intelligent community; recommender system
ID behavioral research; big data; collaborative filtering; collaborative
   filtering recommendations; delivery service; intelligent community; living
   quality; social constructions; user behaviors; recommender systems

---

UT 2000
AR Prasetyo RF, 2024, COMNETSAT - IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL, P76,
   DOI 10.1109/COMNETSAT63286.2024.10862504
TI Ontology-Based Healthy Food Recommendation for the Elderly
AU Prasetyo RF; Baizal ZKA
TC 1
SO COMNETSAT - IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL
PY 2024
AB the elderly population is particularly vulnerable to declining health ,
   which often starts with reduced nutritional intake . as people age , their
   nutritional needs change , and inadequate intake can lead to chronic
   diseases such as heart disease , diabetes , hypertension and stroke . in
   indonesia , the nutritional adequacy ratio ( nacr ) focuses on the need for
   a balanced daily intake of nutrients including protein , fat , carbohydrates
   , fiber , vitamins , and minerals for the population aged 50-64 years . few
   studies have successfully developed food recommendations for the elderly .
   several studies have successfully developed food recommender system
   applications for the elderly , however , this system is not for the elderly
   in indonesia . because indonesian people have unique physical
   characteristics and food menus , and are different from other countries .
   this research addresses this problem by developing a system that is
   customized to the physical characteristic and food menu found in indonesia .
   the system uses ontology to represent knowledge about healthy food choices
   and semantic web rule language ( swrl ) to personalize recommendations based
   on individual health profiles and preferences . a telegram chatbot serves as
   the user interface for the system , so that elderly people can easily access
   the recommendations . we evaluate the system using some metrics , such as
   precision , recall , and f score . the testing results show an f score of
   0.933
DE chatbot; healthy food for elderly; ontology; recommender system; semantic
   web rule language
ID chatbots; f-score; healthy food for elderly; healthy foods; indonesia;
   ontologys; physical characteristics; rules languages; semantic web rule
   language; semantic web rules; ontology

---

UT 2001
AR Agapito G/1, 2017, CEUR WORK PROC, V1953, P32
TI DIETOS: A recommender system for health profiling and diet management in
   chronic diseases
AU Agapito G/1; Simeoni M; Calabrese B; Pietro Hiram G; Fuiano G/1; Cannataro M
TC 14
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2017
AB currently , there is a lack of food recommender systems able to provide high
   quality nutritional advices to both healthy and diet related chronic
   diseases users , eventually exploiting typical regional foods . we present
   dietos ( diet organizer system ) , a recommender system for the adaptive
   delivery of nutrition contents to both healthy subjects and patients with
   diet related chronic diseases , including chronic kidney disease ( ckd ) ,
   hypertension and diabetes . dietos builds health profiles of users and
   provides individual nutritional recommendation . health profiling is based
   on user answers to dynamic real time medical questionnaires , while food
   recommendation is extracted from the dietos catalog . the catalog contains
   typical foods from calabria , a southern italian region , because of their
   beneficial properties . for each food , nutrition facts , and indication or
   counter indication for several chronic diseases are reported . dietos
   includes some well known methods for user profiling ( overlay profiling )
   and content adaptation ( content selection ) coming from general purpose
   adaptive web systems . a preliminary version ( for review purpose only ) of
   dietos is available at
DE diet management; health recommender systems; typical foods
ID diseases; health; nutrition; surveys; websites; adaptive delivery; chronic
   disease; chronic kidney disease; content adaptation; healthy subjects; high
   quality; italian regions; user profiling; recommender systems

---

UT 2002
AR Ramaraj K, 2024, INTERNET TECHNOL LETT, V7, DOI 10.1002/itl2.452
TI A healthy nutrition suggestion model for indian women sports players &
   active youth using long short-term memory
AU Ramaraj K; Narayan V; Dhivyaprabha TT; Subashini P
TC 3
SO INTERNET TECHNOL LETT
PY 2024
AB sports nutrition is the balanced diet or diet chart that helps to improve
   performance of sports persons . it is globally accepted that indian foods
   are rich in nutrition . it is greatly preferred by yogis , gurus and
   dieticians to intake indian foods in order to maintain a wellness and
   healthy lifestyle . smart watches , wearable devices , mobile applications
   and digital portals are available to suggest foods to the sports persons .
   but software application based on indian foods specifically for women
   athletes are not exists so far . in this paper an intelligent food
   recommendation system based on long short term memory ( lstm ) and lstm with
   gru is proposed to suggest meals for women athletes . lstm has connections
   and it processes the entire sequence of data thus , it is week suitable for
   suggestion models . the performance of the model is validated using
   evaluation metrices and the result demonstrate its effectiveness . 2023 john
   wiley and sons , ltd .
DE active youth; deep learning; diet indian women athletes; nutrition;
   recommender system
ID application programs; brain; digital devices; long short-term memory;
   nutrition; sports; active youth; balanced diet; deep learning; diet; healthy
   lifestyles; improve performance; indian woman athlete; mobile applications;
   software applications; wearable devices; recommender systems

---

UT 2003
AR Mardiana NI, 2023, PROCEEDING - COMNETSAT IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS
   SATELL, P70, DOI 10.1109/COMNETSAT59769.2023.10420746
TI Dietary Food Ingredients Recommendation for Patients with Hypertension Using
   a Genetic Algorithm
AU Mardiana NI; Baizal ZKA
TC 0
SO PROCEEDING - COMNETSAT IEEE INT CONF COMMUN NETWORKS SATELL
PY 2023
AB hypertension is a disease of the cardiovascular system . people with
   hypertension are often not aware of their condition because hypertension
   does not show apparent symptoms . measuring blood pressure is an excellent
   habit for identifying indications of hypertension symptoms quickly . obesity
   is a risk factor for hypertension . calorie restriction and a healthy diet
   can manage blood pressure . the dietary approach to stop hypertension ( dash
   ) is a dietary program for maintaining blood pressure . hypertension
   sufferers need to pay attention to the amount of sodium intake . many
   researchers have successfully researched food recommendation systems using
   knowledge base methods . this method has the disadvantage of requiring
   manual updating if there is new data or knowledge . in this study , we
   develop a recommender system that uses a genetic algorithm to recommend
   dietary ingredients to people with hypertension . the genetic algorithm has
   the characteristics of providing optimal results and can adapt when the data
   is updated . the recommender system produces recommendations for food
   ingredients suitable for consumption by people with hypertension . we are
   testing the accuracy using the mape ( mean absolute percentage error )
   method . the results indicate that the recommender system provides accurate
   recommendations for food ingredients for 45 people with hypertension , with
   an average mape of 25.668 %
DE genetic algorithm; hypertension; obesity; recommender system
ID blood; blood pressure; genetic algorithms; knowledge based systems;
   nutrition; calorie restriction; condition; error methods; food ingredients;
   healthy diet; hypertension; obesity; optimal results; percentage error; risk
   factors; recommender systems

---

UT 2004
AR de Kervenoael R, 2024, BEHAV TECHNOL, V43, P1381, DOI
   10.1080/0144929X.2023.2212088
TI Food choice and the epistemic value of the consumption of recommender
   systems: the case of Yuka’s perceived value in France
AU de Kervenoael R; Schwob A; Hasan R; Kemari S
TC 11
SO BEHAV TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB food recommender systems ( recsys ) are innovative knowledge systems that
   inform consumers of food choices according to criteria , including
   nutritional content , health concerns , production method , carbon footprint
   or other social and ethical considerations . they raise important questions
   at the intersection of technology accuracy and today evolving consumers
   knowledge seeking behaviors , which implies to unpack the epistemic value of
   food recsys . this study investigates the drivers of the perceived value of
   food rss consumption by proposing a model that establishes via pls sem ( n =
   253 ) a positive relationship between the yuka company s food recsys
   epistemic value and its perceived value . the model demonstrates that yuka
   recsys epistemic value relies on the disciplinary drivers of compatibility ,
   self confidence , and consumer innovativeness , and the problematising
   drivers of memory and learning , which come from using the application . the
   perceived value of food recsys is found to relate to recsys epistemic value
   beyond the functional accuracy aspects of recommendation algorithms .
   results highlight the importance of developing a refined understanding of
   epistemic value considering the consumption of recsys . recsys developers ,
   retailers , food manufacturers and policy makers must work on better mapping
   and adjusting information through consumers socialized recsys usage to shape
   the design of the next generation recsys
DE epistemic value; food choice; perceived value; recommender systems
ID carbon footprint; nutrition; consumer innovativeness; consumer knowledge;
   epistemic value; ethical considerations; food choice; health concerns;
   knowledge system; perceived value; production methods; recommendation
   algorithms; algorithm; article; consumer; france; human; learning; major
   clinical study; memory; recommender systems

---

UT 2005
AR Khan MA, 2021, J INTELL INF SYST, V57, P229, DOI 10.1007/s10844-021-00639-8
TI Addressing the complexity of personalized, context-aware and health-aware
   food recommendations: an ensemble topic modelling based approach
AU Khan MA; Smyth B; Coyle D
TC 21
SO J INTELL INF SYST
PY 2021
AB food recommender systems ( frs ) have the potential to support informed and
   satisfying food choices . however , to realize their full potential , frs
   must engage with the complexity of the choices people make around food . for
   example , while taste and ingredients are important , contextual and
   practical factors also play a critical role in food choice . much of the
   previous literature on frs has focused on ingredient based recommendations ,
   often in limited food datasets . here we describe a broader approach ,
   focusing on the use of ensemble topic modeling ( enstm ) to support
   personalized recipe recommendations that implicitly capture and account for
   multi domain food preferences in any food corpus . enstm has the additional
   advantage of enabling a reduced data representation format that facilitates
   efficient user modelling and recommendation . this article describes the
   results of two studies . the first investigated enstm based recommendation
   in a cold start scenario . we investigated three different enstm based
   variations using a large scale , real world corpus of 230,876 recipes , and
   compared them with a conventional content based approach . in a user study
   with 48 participants , enstm based recommenders significantly outperformed
   the content based approach . alongside excellent coverage , they enabled an
   implicit understanding of users food preference across multiple food domains
   . the second study investigated the use of enstm in a long term or regular
   use scenario . we implemented multiple variations of feature and / or topic
   based hybrid recipe recommenders , which updated users profiles in real time
   and predicted their preferences for new recipes . when compared against the
   current state of the art enstm based recommenders performed significantly
   better , providing higher accuracy and coverage
DE collaborative filtering; food features; open user modeling; personalization;
   recipe recommender; recommender systems; topic modeling
ID artificial intelligence; information systems; broader approach; content-
   based approach; context-aware; food preference; multi domains; reduced data;
   state of the art; user modeling; nutrition

---

UT 2006
AR Zhang Y/10, 2024, INT CONF KNOWL MANAG, P3279, DOI 10.1145/3627673.3679580
TI Multi-modal Food Recommendation with Health-aware Knowledge Distillation
AU Zhang Y/10; Zhou X/1; Zhu F; Liu N; Guo W; Xu Y/2; Shen Z/1; Cui L
TC 6
SO INT CONF KNOWL MANAG
PY 2024
AB food recommendation systems play a pivotal role in shaping dietary salubrity
   and fostering sustainable lifestyles by recommending recipes and foodstuffs
   that align with user preferences . metadata information of a recipe ,
   encompassing multi modal descriptions , constituent ingredients , and health
   related attributes , can furnish a more holistic perspective on the recipe s
   profile , thereby augmenting recommendation performance . however , existing
   state of the art methods often overlook the inherent interdependencies
   between modalities , ingredients , and health factors , leaving the health
   information pertaining to recipe characteristics underexploited . notably ,
   our preliminary investigation on two datasets unveiled that the semantic
   divergence between health related knowledge and collaborative filtering
   signals is more pronounced in comparison to other metadata information ,
   thereby potentially impeding the efficacy of food recommendation systems .
   to address these limitations , we propose healthrec , a novel multi modal
   food recommendation framework with health aware knowledge distillation .
   healthrec employs a global graph representation learning module to capture
   high order dependencies across diverse food related relations , enriching
   the representations . subsequently , a co attention network is leveraged to
   capture local , recipe level knowledge transfer between modality related and
   ingredient related embeddings . additionally , we exploit external
   supervision signals derived from who recommendations , utilizing knowledge
   distillation during the training phase to transfer local health aware
   knowledge into global collaborative embeddings . extensive experimentation
   on real world datasets demonstrates healthrec s superiority compared to
   current state of the art recommendation baselines , highlighting its
   effectiveness in modeling health aware food recommendations
DE health-aware food recommendation; multi-modal learning; recommender system
ID collaborative filtering; embeddings; health factors; health-aware food
   recommendation; holistic perspectives; metadata information; multi-modal;
   multi-modal learning; recommendation performance; state of the art methods;
   user preferences; electronic health record

---

UT 2007
AR Nielsen DE, 2022, J ASSOC CONSUM RES, V7, P429, DOI 10.1086/720453
TI Consumption Variety in Food Recommendation
AU Nielsen DE; Yang N; Dubé L; Knäuper B; Ling Y; Nie J-Y
TC 1
SO J ASSOC CONSUM RES
PY 2022
AB this research explores the justification and implications of incorporating
   consumption variety into mobile based food recommendation systems . our
   study makes use of data from a popular mobile fitness app , in which we can
   observe large volumes of daily food logs of thousands of users . we first
   confirm that consumption variety is associated with lower overall calories
   consumed , higher vegetable consumption , and lower snack consumption .
   motivated by these empirical patterns about variety and eating , we then
   seek out to design a novel multicriteria food recommendation system (
   foodvar ) that can accommodate for variety in recommended foods . we then
   assess the impact of including this additional variety criterion in
   recommendation system performance , where we show that the incorporation of
   variety improves the algorithm s evaluation metrics . 2022 association for
   consumer research

---

UT 2008
AR Mani AA, 2025, AIP CONF PROC, V3260, DOI 10.1063/5.0259674
TI Food xplorer: Vibrant cuisine experience
AU Mani AA; Saji AM; Biju A; Mani AJ; Raj AK
TC 0
SO AIP CONF PROC
PY 2025
AB in the dynamic realm of culinary exploration , the perennial challenge of
   selecting an optimal dining destination is addressed through the development
   of an innovative android application presented in this research . the
   application offers users a comprehensive repository of dining options ,
   spanning restaurants , cafes , and street vendors , thereby empowering them
   to make well informed decisions . at the heart of this innovation lies a
   personalized food recommendation system , which tailors suggestions based on
   individual food preferences , dietary constraints , and previous dining
   experiences using data structures like trie which enhances user filtering
   and optimizes sorting . the research project further integrates interactive
   navigation features to enhance convenience and overall user satisfaction in
   locating chosen dining establishments . notably , the project introduces an
   advanced review system , transforming the application into a dynamic food
   vlogging platform where users share their culinary experiences through video
   reviews , images , and text based critiques , fostering a community driven
   approach to restaurant recommendations . in addition , system uses advanced
   algorithms , including clustering and geospatial indexing , incorporates
   temperature overlays on the map , delivering real time insights into the
   most accessed and popular food spots . this synthesis of user
   personalization , community engagement , data visualization , and innovative
   algorithms promises to revolutionize dining choices in an ever evolving
   culinary landscape
DE dietary constraints; geospatial indexing; most accessed and popular food
   spots; real time insights; sorting optimization; temperature overlays; trie
   data structure; user filtering

---

UT 2009
AR Das P/1, 2024, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT61001.2024.10723882
TI Classification of Foods based on Bijective Soft Set
AU Das P/1; Bhattacharya R
TC 0
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2024
AB cuisine data is typically classified using images of the cuisine , cooking
   methods , cooking utensils , and , most importantly , ingredients . the vast
   amount of recipe data available on the internet necessitates the creation of
   specialized systems for storing , retrieving , and effectively utilizing
   stored knowledge and data . neural networks based expert systems are
   steadily being used to classify the cuisine data . but it lacks in dealing
   the vagueness present in the categorical cuisine data . also , most of the
   popular recipes available online are mostly unhealthy . as a result , the
   bijective soft set theory has been introduced into this study since it is an
   intelligent method for developing classification rules from food data and
   then recognizing ambiguity and data reliance . the classification guidelines
   also address the necessity to select healthy / nutritious meals . the
   investigation outcomes from using bijective soft set analysis to a set of
   data samples are presented and appraised in this work . furthermore , the
   classification rules derived from this approach provides valuable help for
   developing food recommendation systems . the accuracy of this classification
   scheme has got really influenced by application of the bijective soft set
   when compared to other state of the art classifiers
DE bijective soft set; classification; classification rule generation; cuisine;
   ingredients
ID bijective soft set; classification rule generation; classification rules;
   classifieds; cooking methods; cooking utensils; cuisine; ingredient; rule
   generation; soft sets

---

UT 2010
AR Balloccu G, 2025, RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST, P764, DOI
   10.1145/3705328.3748165
TI GreenFoodLens: Sustainability Labels for Food Recommendation
AU Balloccu G; Boratto L; Fenu G; Marras M; Medda G; Murgia G
TC 1
SO RECSYS - PROC ACM CONF RECOMM SYST
PY 2025
AB most food recommender systems aim to boost user engagement by analyzing
   recipe ingredients and users past choices . even though consumers are paying
   more attention to sustainability , such as carbon and water footprints ,
   there remains a notable lack of public corpora that combine detailed user
   recipe interactions with reliable environmental impact data . this gap makes
   it hard to build recommendation tools that both match people s tastes and
   help reduce ecological damage . to this end , we present greenfoodlens , a
   resource that enriches hummus , one of the largest corpora for food
   recommendation , with environmental impact estimates derived from the
   hierarchical taxonomy of the su eatable life project . we achieved this
   result through a multi step process involving human annotations , iterative
   labeling assessments , knowledge refinement , and constrained generation
   techniques with large language models . finally , we evaluate recommendation
   baselines on hummus augmented with greenfoodlens labels and find that models
   are driven by popularity signals , which may exacerbate the environmental
   impact of users recipe choices . these experiments demonstrate the practical
   benefit of greenfoodlens for benchmarking and advancing sustainability aware
   recommendation research . the resource is available at 2025 copyright held
   by the owner / author ( s ) .
DE constrained generation; food recommendation; human labeling; large language
   model; recipe recommendation; sustainability
ID environmental impact; human computer interaction; human engineering;
   iterative methods; constrained generation; ecological damage; food
   recommendation; human labeling; impact data; language model; large language
   model; recipe recommendation; user engagement; water footprint; sustainable
   development

---

UT 2011
AR Dharshini G, 2025, PROC INT CONF EVOL COMPUT MOB SUSTAIN NETWORKS ICECMSN,
   P1788, DOI 10.1109/ICECMSN68058.2025.11382673
TI Nutri-Compass: Artificial Intelligence Zero Waste and Nutritional Resilience
   Circular Food Economy Solution
AU Dharshini G; Amirtha Varshini VM; Rajkumar K
TC 0
SO PROC INT CONF EVOL COMPUT MOB SUSTAIN NETWORKS ICECMSN
PY 2025
AB it is a global crisis where food exists in abundance , yet malnourishment
   remains extensive . although most food produced goes to waste annually , the
   world continues to face the problem of malnourishment and food insecurity in
   millions of people . to solve this issue , this study introduces nutri
   compass , an ai driven model that helps support a zero waste circular food
   economy without necessarily having new iot or hardware based sensors . to
   identify unhealthy and nutritious foods , nutri compass employs a collection
   of machine learning classifiers , whereas lstm and xgboost models identify
   fresh food , which guarantees the distribution of nutrient dense foods in
   time and reduced waste . in the case of super fresh foods , the priority of
   short haul delivery are given by the optimization algorithms and long
   distance shipping is arranged in case of goods with longer shelf life .
   equitable allocation model allocates food fairly to those and food banks
   according to their nutrition , need , and geography . in bio fertilizers ,
   ai compost zoning recovers inedible food that enhances the health of the
   soil . also , personal food plans and food as medicine advice are given to
   recipients via food recommendation system , and an administration dashboard
   that forecasts analytics , and demand aggregation , and waste hotspots . the
   article nutri compass demonstrates the efficacy of ai in providing the
   social and environmental value of surplus food by closing the gap between
   nutrition , sustainability and food rescue . it is in line with the united
   nations sustainable development goals of zero hunger , good health and well
   being , sustainable cities , responsible consumption , climate action , and
   life on land . to sum up , the nutri compass is one of the examples of how
   predictive modeling and smart logistics can transform excess food resources
   and a device to make the food systems more equitable , resilient and
   sustainable
DE ai; food rescue; lstm; machine learning; nutrition; optimization; predictive
   analytics; sustainable; xgboost; zero waste
ID behavioral research; circular economy; food waste; learning systems; machine
   learning; nutrition; predictive analytics; sustainable development; food
   insecurity; food rescue; fresh food; learning classifiers; lstm; machine
   learning; optimizations; sustainable; xgboost; zero waste; optimization

---

UT 2012
AR Salamah FU, 2021, ICAICST - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL COMPUT SCI TECHNOL, P240,
   DOI 10.1109/ICAICST53116.2021.9497824
TI Particle Swarm Optimization to Support Low Protein Diets for Diabetic
   Nephropathy Patients
AU Salamah FU; Wardani D
TC 3
SO ICAICST - INT CONF ARTIF INTELL COMPUT SCI TECHNOL
PY 2021
AB diabetic nephropathy is a major because of morbidity and mortality in
   patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus . one way to prevent the
   development of microalbuminuria and to delay the development of
   macroalbuminuria for patients with diabetic nephropathy is by taking one
   treatment that is adjusting low protein diets . dietary therapy has often
   been recommended by doctors in patients with diabetic nephropathy , but
   people have difficulty determining which foods can be consumed daily .
   therefore in this work , a food recommendation system was built to support a
   low protein diet to help diabetic nephropathy patients determine their daily
   food consumption . this research uses particle swarm optimization ( pso )
   method to get the maximum variation of food ingredients . in this work , 130
   patients were tested . based on the test results on 120 patient data , the
   food ingredients obtained is almost the same with different weight of
   ingredients according to patient needs . while the results of testing 10
   other data conducted by experts obtained an average evaluation value of 3.5
   points from 5 points
DE diabetic nephropathy; food menu recommendations; low protein diet; particle
   swarm optimization; recommendation system
ID artificial intelligence; diseases; food additives; food supply; hospital
   data processing; patient treatment; proteins; diabetes mellitus; diabetic
   nephropathy; food consumption; food ingredients; low protein diet; maximum
   variations; microalbuminuria; particle swarm optimization method ( pso );
   particle swarm optimization ( pso )

---

UT 2013
AR Tipan IPA, 2024, INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT, DOI
   10.1109/ICCCNT61001.2024.10723947
TI Integrating YOLOv8 and Cosine Similarity for Food Recipe-Specific Ingredient
   Collection and Recommendation
AU Tipan IPA; Yumang AN
TC 4
SO INT CONF COMPUT COMMUN NETW TECHNOL ICCCNT
PY 2024
AB artificial intelligence ( ai ) is revolutionizing all the industry ,
   including the culinary domain . the paper aims to develop an innovative food
   recommendation system by integrating the yolov8 , for object detection
   algorithm and the cosine similarity algorithm , for ingredient detection and
   recipe suggestions . a system which the researchers have developed can
   identify ingredients and suggest corresponding recipes . a custom dataset
   was made consisting of twenty one ( 21 ) ingredients for training the
   algorithm yolov8 . for the cosine similarity , a dataset consisting of ten (
   10 ) dishes such as ' chicken tinola ' , ' chicken adobo ' , ' chicken
   afritada ' , ' chicken curry ' , ' sinigang na baka ' , ' nilagang baka ' ,
   ' beef kare kare ' , ' sinigang na baboy ' , ' pork humba ' , and ' pork
   menudo ' was utilized . the researchers utilized nvidia jetson nano for the
   main computing , and raspberry pi v2 camera for capturing the ingredients .
   the results of the detected samples were then shown on 5-inch lcd display .
   the accuracy of the system that yielded 84.76 % , has been determined by
   using a confusion matrix . the precision of the system resulted in 91.75 % ,
   while the recall was 91.75 % . the f1 score of the system is determined to
   be 91.75 percent additionally , a percentage error formula was utilized for
   recipe recommendations , resulting in a 12 % error rate
DE cosine similarity; ingredients; nvidia jetson nano; raspberry pi v2 camera;
   recipe recommentdation; yolov8
ID food chemistry; meats; confusion matrix; cosine similarity; ingredient; lcd
   displays; nvidia jetson nano; object detection algorithms; raspberry pi v2
   camera; recipe recommentdation; similarity algorithm; yolov8; liquid crystal
   displays

---

UT 2014
AR Bagozi A, 2025, CEUR WORK PROC, V4182, P516
TI Leveraging Ontologies to Enhance Personalised and Sustainable Food
   Recommendations with LLMs
AU Bagozi A; Bianchini D; Melchiori M; Rula A
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2025
AB modern food recommendation systems aim to guide consumers toward sustainable
   and nutritionally balanced choices , encouraging healthier eating habits and
   addressing the increasing focus on food sustainability and waste reduction .
   large language models ( llms ) have emerged as powerful tools for generating
   food recommendations due to their advanced natural language processing
   capabilities . however , delivering personalized and contextually accurate
   suggestions remains challenging due to the absence of a well defined
   framework for representing healthy and sustainable food choices aligned with
   individual dietary and lifestyle needs . ontologies provide a structured and
   semantically rich framework to address this gap . in this paper , we
   introduce a modular ontology designed to enhance llms driven contextual
   understanding , enabling more accurate and personalized food recommendations
   . the ontology is built around competency questions drawn from a research
   project on sustainable and healthy food recommendations . we evaluated this
   approach by conducting experiments where chatgpt 4 answered competency
   questions with and without ontology integration , followed by a user study
   to assess the responses . initial results suggest that incorporating the
   ontology significantly improves the quality and relevance of the
   recommendations , with a positive impact on both search results and the
   quality of generated answers
DE consumer empowerment; large language models; multi-perspective ontology
   engineering; sustainable food recommendation

---

UT 2015
AR Jansen LZH, 2024, COMPUT HUM BEHAV, V159, DOI 10.1016/j.chb.2024.108336
TI Online grocery shopping recommender systems: Common approaches and practices
AU Jansen LZH; Bennin KE/1; van Kleef E; Van Loo EJ
TC 15
SO COMPUT HUM BEHAV
PY 2024
AB food recommender systems have been developed for the online environment to
   support shoppers in making informed decisions . these systems analyze the
   extensive data collected to infer consumer preferences and needs , providing
   relevant product recommendations accordingly . despite the potential of
   recommender systems as a strategic marketing tool in the online grocery
   shopping environment , there has been limited effort to systematically
   analyze approaches of prior studies on recommender systems for online
   grocery shoppers along the five stages of recommendation delivery : ( 1 )
   identify recommendation goal , ( 2 ) acquire consumer data , ( 3 ) compute ,
   ( 4 ) evaluate , and ( 5 ) present the recommendation . therefore , this
   paper examines the advancements in each stage of delivering grocery
   recommendations to consumers from 2018 to march 2023 . we performed a search
   strategy resulting in 50 papers dedicated to recommender systems for online
   grocery shoppers , which contrasts with previous research that typically
   examined recipe and meal recommendations that were merely meant to inspire
   users on what to cook . findings reveal a prevalence of preference based
   systems with limited integration of explicit consumer data , and often
   lacking consent for implicit data usage . while advanced deep neural network
   models are getting more attention in the literature , evaluation methods
   tend to be system oriented , overlooking essential user feedback and the
   efficacy of general metrics . this systematic literature review underscores
   the necessity for consumer engagement in system and interface design ,
   aiming for grocery recommendation systems that improve customer experience ,
   by ensuring inclusivity and prioritizing user centered design
DE consumer data; grocery recommender systems; online environment;
   personalization; systematic literature review
ID deep neural networks; online systems; user-centered design; consumer data;
   consumer needs; consumers preferences; grocery recommende system; grocery
   shopping; informed decision; online environments; personalizations; product
   recommendation; systematic literature review; recommender systems

---

UT 2016
AR Cai Q, 2023, IEEE INT WORK MULTIMED SIGNAL PROCESS MMSP, DOI
   10.1109/MMSP59012.2023.10337656
TI SSDB-Net: A Single-Step Dual Branch Network for Weakly Supervised Semantic
   Segmentation of Food Images
AU Cai Q; Abhayaratne C
TC 7
SO IEEE INT WORK MULTIMED SIGNAL PROCESS MMSP
PY 2023
AB food image segmentation , as a critical task in food and nutrition research
   , promotes the development of various application domains such as calorie
   and nutrition estimation , food recommender systems , and daily food
   monitoring systems . currently , most of the research is focused on food and
   non food segmentation , which simply segments the food and background
   regions . differently , semantic food segmentation can identify different
   specific food ingredients in a food image and provide more detailed and
   accurate information such as object location , shape and class . this is a
   more challenging but meaningful task , because the same food may appear in
   completely different colors , shapes and textures in different dishes , and
   correspondingly less researched . from the implementation perspective , most
   previous research is based on deep learning methods with pixel level labeled
   data . however , annotating pixel level labels requires extremely high labor
   costs . in this paper , a novel single step dual branch network ( ssdb net )
   is proposed to achieve weakly supervised semantic food segmentation . to our
   knowledge , this research is the first time proposing weakly supervised
   semantic food segmentation with image level labels based on convolutional
   neural networks ( cnn ) . it may serve as a benchmark for future food
   segmentation research . our proposal method resulted in an miou of 14.79 %
   for 104 categories in the foodseg103 dataset compared to 11.49 % of the
   state of the art wsss method applied in food domains
DE food image analysis; semantic food segmentation; weakly supervised semantic
   segmentation
ID convolutional neural networks; deep learning; learning systems; nutrition;
   pixels; semantic segmentation; textures; wages; critical tasks; food image;
   food image analyze; image analysis; images segmentations; pixel level;
   semantic food segmentation; semantic segmentation; single-step; weakly
   supervised semantic segmentation; semantics

---

UT 2017
AR Starke A, 2019, CEUR WORK PROC, V2439, P29
TI RecSys Challenges in achieving sustainable eating habits
AU Starke A
TC 18
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2019
AB most food recommender systems successfully fit one s current appetite for
   different food items . however , one s current preferences ( e . g . i like
   high carb foods ) may conflict with a new dietary goal ( e . g . i want to
   minimize my carb intake ) , which can be detrimental to recommendation
   quality over time . moreover , choices in the short term might not lead to
   behavioral change in the longer term . this short position paper outlines a
   few challenges related to changing habits , and reports a small analysis to
   show how the rasch model could complement cf based approaches in research on
   sustainable eating habits . 2019 copyright for the individual papers remains
   with the authors . use permitted under creative commons license attribution
   4.0 international ( cc by 4.0 ) .
DE behavioral change; eang habits; rasch model; sustainability; user experience
ID sustainable development; behavioral changes; eang habits; eating habits;
   rasch modeling; short position; short-term; user experience; recommender
   systems

---

UT 2018
AR Seminar KB, 2025, NUTR, V12, DOI 10.3389/fnut.2025.1590523
TI AI-based system for food and beverage selection towards precision nutrition
   in Indonesian restaurants
AU Seminar KB; Damayanthi E; Priandana K; Imantho H; Ligar BW; Seminar AU;
   Krishnajaya AD; Aditya MR; Suherman MIH; Fillah IF
TC 0
SO NUTR
PY 2025
AB the complexity surrounding food selection is attributable to the variability
   in foods , restaurants , and diners . the diversity of foods , where each
   dish may have a unique recipe across different restaurants , needs to be
   accounted for in personalized nutrition . however , personalized food
   selection poses a combinatorial challenge in selecting the most suitable
   food at a specific restaurant . the key question is how a diner visiting a
   particular restaurant can be assisted in selecting optimal foods and
   beverages based on factors such as sex , age , height , weight , and history
   of non communicable diseases ( ncds ) . in this study , a genetic algorithm
   ( ga ) is used to develop a system that can address this issue in the
   context of indonesian restaurants . in this system , a database with data on
   registered diners and foods is maintained . foods comprise staple foods ,
   side dishes , vegetables , and beverages , each containing its energy and
   nutrient content for a given restaurant . the nutritional adequacy of a
   single meal is determined by comparing the energy and nutrient content of
   the menu with the diner s nutritional needs . the novelty of the proposed
   system lies in combining scientific nutritional data with individual diner
   profiles for the selection of the best meal for a diner . this system
   differs from the existing food recommender applications in indonesia , which
   typically do not consider specific diners , personalized nutrition , and ncd
   history . the proposed system is the first developed application prototype
   for indonesian restaurants to overcome the inefficiency of the existing
   applications . in this study , the structure and chromosome content of the
   food , its corresponding energy and nutrient contents , and ga operators
   such as crossover , mutation , and tournament selection for determining the
   best meal using the defined fitness functions are discussed . the proposed
   system has been tested at karimata restaurant and proved to be highly
   suitable for the ultimate goal of meal selection for individual diners with
   different needs , and it can be replicated at other restaurants .
   furthermore , user centered evaluation has revealed that the system ( a )
   increases nutritional understanding and health awareness . ( b ) is easy to
   use with comprehensive functions . and ( c ) promotes user satisfaction with
   personalized recommendations
DE food selection; genetic algorithm; intelligent systems; personalized
   nutritional status; restaurant

---

UT 2019
AR Sedrakyan G, 2023, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V14319 LNCS, P312, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-47112-4_29
TI Design Implications Towards Human-Centric Semantic Recommenders for
   Sustainable Food Consumption
AU Sedrakyan G; Gavai A; van Hillegersberg J
TC 10
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2023
AB the significance of food is evident in the myriad challenges confronting
   contemporary society , including the increasing prevalence of diet related
   diseases , food waste with its adverse economic , environmental , and social
   impacts , and the significant impact of food production on environmental
   issues , among others . as the negative health and environmental impacts of
   dietary patterns become more evident , there is a growing demand for
   personalized and sustainable food recommendations to promote healthier and
   planet friendly choices . this study aims to enrich the theoretical
   underpinnings of food recommender systems with an emphasis on sustainable
   food consumption , by integrating insights from existing research , behavior
   change theories , and industry 5.0 digitization concepts on humanity
   centered technologies
DE food recommender; human-centric food recommender; nutrition consumption
   behavior; privacy-aware food recommender; sustainable food consumption
ID behavioral research; environmental impact; food supply; semantics;
   sustainable development; design implications; economic impacts; food
   recommende; food waste; human-centric; human-centric food recommende;
   nutrition consumption behavior; privacy-aware; privacy-aware food
   recommende; sustainable food consumption; nutrition

---

UT 2020
AR Yang Z, 2024, SMART HEAL, V32, DOI 10.1016/j.smhl.2024.100465
TI ChatDiet: Empowering personalized nutrition-oriented food recommender
   chatbots through an LLM-augmented framework
AU Yang Z; Khatibi E; Nagesh N; Abbasian M; Azimi I; Jain R; Rahmani AM
TC 81
SO SMART HEAL
PY 2024
AB the profound impact of food on health necessitates advanced nutrition
   oriented food recommendation services . conventional methods often lack the
   crucial elements of personalization , explainability , and interactivity .
   while large language models ( llms ) bring interpretability and
   explainability , their standalone use falls short of achieving true
   personalization . in this paper , we introduce chatdiet , a novel llm
   powered framework designed specifically for personalized nutrition oriented
   food recommendation chatbots . chatdiet integrates personal and population
   models , complemented by an orchestrator , to seamlessly retrieve and
   process pertinent information . the personal model leverages causal
   discovery and inference techniques to assess personalized nutritional
   effects for a specific user , whereas the population model provides
   generalized information on food nutritional content . the orchestrator
   retrieves , synergizes and delivers the output of both models to the llm ,
   providing tailored food recommendations designed to support targeted health
   outcomes . the result is a dynamic delivery of personalized and explainable
   food recommendations , tailored to individual user preferences . our
   evaluation of chatdiet includes a compelling case study , where we establish
   a causal personal model to estimate individual nutrition effects . our
   assessments , including a food recommendation test showcasing a 92 %
   effectiveness rate , coupled with illustrative dialog examples , underscore
   chatdiet s strengths in explainability , personalization , and interactivity
DE causal reasoning; chatbots; explainability; food; interactivity; large
   language model; nutrition; personalization; recommender systems
ID aged; article; clinical outcome; food; human; large language model;
   personalized nutrition; population model

---

UT 2021
AR Buzcu B, 2024, LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI, V14847 LNAI, P58, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-70074-3_4
TI A Framework for Explainable Multi-purpose Virtual Assistants: A Nutrition-
   Focused Case Study
AU Buzcu B; Pannatier Y; Aydoğan R; Ignaz Schumacher M; Calbimonte J-P;
   Calvaresi D
TC 3
SO LECT NOTES COMPUT SCI
PY 2024
AB existing agent based chatbot frameworks need seamless mechanisms to include
   explainable dialogic engines within the contextual flow . to this end , this
   paper presents a set of novel modules within the erebots agent based
   framework for chatbot development , including dialog based plug and play
   custom algorithms , agnostic back / front ends , and embedded interactive
   explainable engines that can manage human feedback at run time . the
   framework has been employed to implement an explainable agent based
   interactive food recommender system . the latter has been tested with 44
   participants , who followed a nutrition recommendation interaction series ,
   generating explained recommendations and suggestions , which were , in
   general , well received . additionally , the participants provided important
   insights to be included in future work
DE chatbot framework; explainable ai; user study
ID bot ( internet ); agent-based; agent-based framework; case-studies; chatbot
   framework; chatbots; explainable ai; multi-purpose; plug-and-play; user
   study; virtual assistants; chatbots

---

UT 2022
AR Starke A, 2021, RECSYS - ACM CONF RECOMM SYST, P124, DOI
   10.1145/3460231.3474232
TI "serving Each User": Supporting different eating goals through a multi-list
   recommender interface
AU Starke A; Asotic E; Trattner C
TC 39
SO RECSYS - ACM CONF RECOMM SYST
PY 2021
AB food recommender systems optimize toward a user s current preferences .
   however , appetites may vary , in the sense that users might seek healthy
   recipes today and look for unhealthy meals tomorrow . in this paper , we
   propose a novel approach in the food domain to diversify recommendations
   across different lists to serve different users goals , compiled in a multi
   list food recommender interface . we evaluated our interface in a 2 ( single
   list vs multiple lists ) x 2 ( without or with explanations ) between
   subject user study ( n = 366 ) , linking choice behavior and evaluation
   aspects through the user experience framework . our multi list interface was
   evaluated more favorably than a single list interface , in terms of
   diversity and choice satisfaction . moreover , it triggered changes in food
   choices , even though these choices were less healthy than those made in the
   single list interface
DE food; goals; health; nudges; recommender systems; user experience
ID current; choice behaviors; goal; nudge; user goals; user study; users
   experiences; recommender systems

---

UT 2023
AR Trattner C, 2018, COLLAB RECOMM ALGORITHMS PRACT CHALLENGES APPL, P653, DOI
   10.1142/9789813275355_0020
TI Food Recommendations
AU Trattner C; Elsweiler D
TC 11
SO COLLAB RECOMM ALGORITHMS PRACT CHALLENGES APPL
PY 2018
AB the recommendation of food items is important for many reasons . attaining
   cooking inspiration via digital sources is becoming evermore popular . as
   are systems , which recommend other types of food , such as meals in
   restaurants or products in supermarkets . researchers have been studying
   these kinds of systems for many years , suggesting not only that can they be
   a means to help people find food they might want to eat , but also help them
   nourish themselves more healthily . this paper provides a summary of the
   state of the art of so called food recommender systems , highlighting both
   seminal and most recent approaches to the problem , as well as important
   specializations , such as food recommendation systems for groups of users or
   systems which promote healthy eating . we moreover discuss the diverse
   challenges involved in designing recsys for food , summarize the lessons
   learned from past research and outline what we believe to be important
   future directions and open questions for the field . in providing these
   contributions we hope to provide a useful resource for researchers and
   practitioners alike . 2019 by world scientific publishing co . pte . ltd .

---

UT 2024
AR [Anonymous], 2025, PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES ADV GLOB CONNECT EMERG
   TECHNOL SOLUT
TI Proceedings of ICITR 2025 - 10th International Conference on Information
   Technology Research: Advancing Global Connectivity Through Emerging
   Information Technology Solutions
TC 0
SO PROC ICITR - INT CONF TECHNOL RES ADV GLOB CONNECT EMERG TECHNOL SOLUT
PY 2025
AB the proceedings contain 67 papers . the topics discussed include : assessing
   export performance in sri lankan agriculture : a stochastic frontier
   approach to the gravity model . ai assisted criminal investigations :
   enhancing testimony analysis and case correlation . an intelligent hybrid
   food recommendation system for chronic kidney disease management :
   integrating clinical guidelines , personal preferences , and explainable ai
   . sri lankan seagrass families identification using underwater images
   through image enhancement and deep learning techniques . ai generated image
   detection using hybrid feature extraction . multi criteria decision making
   framework for ranking machine learning models . and parallel recursive
   decomposition for maximal clique enumeration on multicore systems .

---

UT 2025
AR Schäfer H, 2017, UMAP - ADJUN PUBL CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS, P93, DOI
   10.1145/3099023.3099108
TI User nutrition modelling and recommendation - Balancing simplicity and
   complexity
AU Schäfer H; Elahi M; Elsweiler D; Groh G; Harvey M; Ludwig B; Ricci F; Said A
TC 19
SO UMAP - ADJUN PUBL CONF USER MODEL ADAPT PERS
PY 2017
AB in order to use and model nutritional knowledge in a food recommender system
   , uncertainties regarding the users nutritional state and thus the personal
   health value of food items , as well as conflicting nutritional theories
   need to be quantified , qualified and subsumed into falsifiable models . in
   this paper , we reflect on different error sources with respect to nutrition
   and consider how such issues can be tackled in future systems . we discuss
   the integration of general nutritional theories into information systems as
   well as user specific nutritional measures and different approaches to
   evaluating the utility of a given nutritional model
DE health informatics; nutrition modeling; nutrition recommender systems;
   online nutrition interventions; patient modeling
ID online systems; patient treatment; recommender systems; error sources;
   health informatics; nutritional state; online nutrition interventions;
   patient modeling; personal health; nutrition

---

UT 2026
AR Agapito G, 2016, INT CONF WIREL MOB COMPUT NETW COMMUN, DOI
   10.1109/WiMOB.2016.7763190
TI DIETOS: A recommender system for adaptive diet monitoring and personalized
   food suggestion
AU Agapito G; Calabrese B/1; Guzzi PH/1; Cannataro M/1; Simeoni M/1; Care I;
   Lamprinoudi T; Fuiano G; Pujia A/1
TC 42
SO INT CONF WIREL MOB COMPUT NETW COMMUN
PY 2016
AB nowadays there is a widespread diffusion of mobile applications for weight
   and diet management . even though , the most popular apps are not usually
   experimented in clinical contexts , as well as apps are not supported by
   medical evidence . further research is necessary to assess the effectiveness
   of apps for weight and diet management . moreover , there are few examples
   of food recommender systems that provide to the users nutritional facts
   about suitable food choices and take into account individual physiological
   status and environmental situations . we propose dietos ( diet organizer
   system ) , a recommender system for the adaptive delivery of nutrition
   contents to improve the quality of life of both healthy people and
   individuals affected by chronic diet related diseases . the proposed system
   is able to build a user s health profile , and provides individualized
   nutritional recommendation according to the health profile . the profile is
   created through the use of dynamic real time questionnaires prepared by
   medical doctors and compiled by the users . the health profile includes
   information about health status and eventual chronic diseases . the first
   prototype of the system ( available online at ) , includes a catalog of
   typical calabrian foods compiled by nutrition specialists ( calabria is a
   region of the southern italy ) . dietos can suggest not only the use of
   specific foods compatible with the health status , but also it may give
   dietary indications related to some specific pathologies or health
   conditions
DE chronic disease; diet management; food recommendation; health profile
ID diseases; health; mobile computing; recommender systems; surveys; adaptive
   delivery; chronic disease; health condition; medical doctors; mobile
   applications; physiological status; quality of life; southern italy;
   nutrition

---

UT 2027
AR Trang Tran TN, 2018, J INTELL INF SYST, V50, P501, DOI
   10.1007/s10844-017-0469-0
TI An overview of recommender systems in the healthy food domain
AU Trang Tran TN; Atas M; Felfernig A; Stettinger M
TC 166
SO J INTELL INF SYST
PY 2018
AB recently , food recommender systems have received increasing attention due
   to their relevance for healthy living . most existing studies on the food
   domain focus on recommendations that suggest proper food items for
   individual users on the basis of considering their preferences or health
   problems . these systems also provide functionalities to keep track of
   nutritional consumption as well as to persuade users to change their eating
   behavior in positive ways . also , group recommendation functionalities are
   very useful in the food domain , especially when a group of users wants to
   have a dinner together at home or have a birthday party in a restaurant .
   such scenarios create many challenges for food recommender systems since the
   preferences of all group members have to be taken into account in an
   adequate fashion . in this paper , we present an overview of recommendation
   techniques for individuals and groups in the healthy food domain . in
   addition , we analyze the existing state of the art in food recommender
   systems and discuss research challenges related to the development of future
   food recommendation technologies
DE eating behavior; healthy food; nutritional needs; recommender systems; user
   preferences
ID nutrition; eating behavior; group recommendations; healthy foods;
   nutritional needs; recommendation techniques; recommendation technologies;
   research challenges; user preferences; recommender systems

---

UT 2028
AR Ou T-Y, 2023, J ADV COMPUT INTELL INTELL INFORMATICS, V27, P271, DOI
   10.20965/jaciii.2023.p0271
TI Design and Implementation of a Recommendation System for Buying Fresh Foods
   Online Based on Web Crawling
AU Ou T-Y; Lee Y-C; Chang T-H; Lee S-H; Tsai W-L
TC 3
SO J ADV COMPUT INTELL INTELL INFORMATICS
PY 2023
AB as shopping patterns have gradually shifted from offline to online mode ,
   and with recent lockdowns during the coronavirus disease 2019 ( covid 19 )
   pandemic restricting foreign trade and accelerating the growth of the
   domestic economy , digital transformation has become a major strategy for
   many retailers to support and expand their businesses . with the pandemic
   becoming a turning point , the business of major e commerce companies in
   taiwan in the retail of dry goods has grown significantly , and it has
   driven the online sales of fresh products as well . in this era of fierce
   competition , it is especially important to find a way that enables
   consumers to quickly find ideal fresh products on multiple platforms ,
   shortens the time for price comparison , and improves the efficiency of
   online shopping . this study uses the python programming language to write a
   web crawler program that captures product information from fresh food e
   commerce platforms , including product introduction , price , origin , and
   sales volume , and then defines the relevant status of the product , such as
   product popularity . accordingly , through chinese text segmentation and
   term frequency calculation , it aims to classify the product names and
   introductions into frequently occurring words and use them as product
   related labels . finally , the program combines the product information
   processing results and product related labels to construct an online fresh
   food recommendation system . the results of the proposed system show that it
   reduces the time and energy spent comparing prices . it can also guide
   consumers to browse products that may be of interest using relevant tags and
   increase consumption efficiency by helping them find the ideal item when
   shopping . fuji technology press ltd .
DE digital transformation; fresh food; recommendation systems; term frequency;
   text segmentation
ID computer programming; electronic commerce; international trade; online
   systems; recommender systems; web crawler; design and implementations;
   digital transformation; e- commerces; fresh food; offline; product
   information; product introduction; term frequency; text segmentation; web
   crawling; sales

---

UT 2029
AR Murugeswari R, 2022, INT CONF INVEN RES COMPUT APPL ICIRCA - PROC, P768, DOI
   10.1109/ICIRCA54612.2022.9985535
TI Machine Learning based Omnifood: Nutritional Meal Drop
AU Murugeswari R; Hamsanipally NR; Sure LS; Molligari J; Yanamala PKR
TC 0
SO INT CONF INVEN RES COMPUT APPL ICIRCA - PROC
PY 2022
AB there are many portable applications for weight and diet management
   available these days . furthermore , there are few examples of food
   recommendation systems that provide nutritional information about reasonable
   food choices to the user . an enormous number of people are extraordinarily
   busy with their positions , loved ones , and other basic exercises , which
   does not take into account cooking . this could lead a poor diet routine and
   lasting health consequences . it is highly required to solve this issue by
   using a web based methodology . clients can use the developed web page to
   pick their eating routine and food sources they like and dislike , and our
   computation will make a custom and individual step by step weekly plan . the
   proposed web application guarantees the client to obtain all of the required
   enhancements and supplements , notwithstanding the eating routine . the
   proposed application works with the eateries and other cooking accomplices
   to truly get ready and convey all dinners from the delivered feast plans to
   chosen regions . this paper proposes multinomial naive bayes and this
   proposed algorithm , classified for food reviews . the proposed research
   work has created a webpage using html5 , css3 , and javascript and
   classified food reviews using machine learning . four different algorithms
   are executed on the proposed dataset , they are bernoulli naive bayes ,
   gaussian naive bayes , logistic regression and multinomial naive bayes . in
   algorithm evaluation , a performance matrix has been formed i . e . ,
   precision , recall and accuracy of multinomial naive bayes are observed to
   be high when compared to other algorithms . so , the multinomial naive bayes
   algorithm is utilized in the proposed model
DE food ordering system; food recommendation; food reviews; machine learning;
   multinomial naive bayes; natural language processing; sentiment analysis;
   web application development
ID classifiers; machine learning; nutrition; websites; food ordering system;
   food recommendation; food review; language processing; machine learning;
   multinomial naive bayes; natural language processing; natural languages;
   ordering system; sentiment analysis; web application development; sentiment
   analysis

---

UT 2030
AR Thammabunwarit N, 2025, J ADV TECHNOL, V16, P318, DOI
   10.12720/jait.16.3.318-329
TI Co-occurrence and Ontology Reinforcement Learning: CoO-RL in Food
   Recommendations
AU Thammabunwarit N; Vatcharaphrueksadee A; Puttawattanakul P; Maliyaem M
TC 0
SO J ADV TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB this study is based on a proposed framework that integrates a co occurrence
   graph and ontology to develop an adaptive reinforcement recommendation
   system , referred to as co occurrence and ontology via reinforcement
   learning ( coo rl ) . the implementation of coo rl on healthy recipes and
   ingredients facilitates a recommendation system for ingredient substitution
   within recipe data . this document elucidates how coo rl executes its
   algorithm , providing implementation details to clarify the innovative
   problem solving approach utilized by the framework . the application s
   contribution , stemming from the efficacy of the food recommendation system
   , effectively meets its objective by suggesting ingredient substitutions
   based on user feedback , user profile , and constraints . conceptually ,
   this work offers an alternative method for generating recommendations ,
   wherein the dataset encapsulates similarity relationships among data
   instances , structured as an ontology network . the research articulates and
   substantiates its intent at both the application and design levels . by
   employing co occurrence and ontology techniques to analyze and adjust food
   ingredients according to user preferences , the results demonstrate an
   accuracy of 80 % in the recommendations , while ensuring that the proposed
   menu ingredients maintain appropriate nutritional value . consequently ,
   this research effectively promotes and enhances overall nutritional food
   choices in alignment with nutritional principles
DE co-occurrence; healthy food; ontology; recommendation system; reinforcement
   learning

---

UT 2031
AR Ma D/1, 2025, ICASSP IEEE INT CONF ACOUST SPEECH SIGNAL PROCESS PROC, DOI
   10.1109/ICASSP49660.2025.10888217
TI Improving Food Recognition with Retrieval-Augmented and Domain-Adaptive
   LVLMs
AU Ma D/1; Xu Z/2; Xing T; Yuan L; Yang J; Wu H; Lei M; He Z
TC 1
SO ICASSP IEEE INT CONF ACOUST SPEECH SIGNAL PROCESS PROC
PY 2025
AB food recognition is pivotal in enhancing intelligent food recommendation
   systems and nutritional management , contributing to balanced diets and
   overall health . although large vision language models ( lvlms ) have
   demonstrated impressive performances across various domains , their
   performance on the food recognition task still lags behind traditional
   vision models . to bridge this gap , this paper proposes two methods to
   improve the food recognition capabilities of lvlms : retrieval augmented
   recognition ( rar ) and domain adaptive recognition ( dar ) . on the one
   hand , the training free rar utilizes a vision model to retrieve relevant
   image category pairs from an image category memory pre built from the
   training set , thus incorporating the categorical information into the input
   of lvlms to enhance food recognition performance . on the other hand , dar
   employs a two stage training process by first pre training lvlms on diverse
   food analysis tasks and then fine tuning lvlms using food recognition data .
   extensive evaluations on two large scale food recognition datasets
   demonstrate that both rar and dar improve the food recognition performance
   of lvlms and , compred to rar , dar achieves a higher precision that
   outperforms traditional vision models
DE domain-adaptive recognition; lvlms; retrieval-augmented recognition

---

UT 2032
AR Gopalakrishnan AK, 2023, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V464, P95, DOI
   10.1007/978-981-19-2394-4_9
TI A Food Constraint Satisfaction System-Based on Genetic and Random Walk
   Algorithms
AU Gopalakrishnan AK
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2023
AB this paper has presented a novel concept of a food constraint satisfaction
   system based on the genetic algorithm ( ga ) and random walk ( rw ) . the
   system is a part of the food recommendation system under consideration for
   recommending proper calorie daily food for obese individuals with overweight
   . the system estimates the values of overweight , daily needed food calorie
   ( dnc ) , and saturated dnc ( dncsat ) of the individuals from their body
   mass index ( bmi ) and basal metabolic rate ( bmr ) values . the daily food
   set is the food items for breakfast ( bf ) , lunch ( ln ) , and dinner ( dn
   ) selected by an individual . individuals can choose any food item from the
   predefined food variables for their daily food set . the overall daily food
   calorie ( odc ) is the total food calories estimated from the daily food set
   . the system aims to assign only the dncsat matching food items for the
   daily food set of each individual from the food list of the system . the
   system has utilized two random based algorithms such as ga and rw , to find
   an appropriate daily food set that satisfies the individual s food choices
   and dncsat values . the fitness ratio ( fr ) of ga and rw s node evaluation
   ( ndeval ) are estimated based on the individuals odc and dncsat values .
   the carried out simulations show that rw outperforms ga in performance and
   computational complexity . the presented food constraint satisfaction system
   could effectively satisfy individuals with different food habits and tastes
DE bmi; bmr; daily needed food calorie; food constraint variables; food
   dataset; genetic algorithm; number of days needed; overweight value; random
   walk; saturated daily needed food calorie

---

UT 2033
AR Shajith S, 2025, PROC INT CONF INVEN COMPUT TECHNOL ICICT, P789, DOI
   10.1109/ICICT64420.2025.11004768
TI Building an AI Powered Nutrition Tracking System
AU Shajith S; Jaitly V
TC 2
SO PROC INT CONF INVEN COMPUT TECHNOL ICICT
PY 2025
AB in the current rapid lifestyle , upholding a balanced diet suited to
   personal health requirements has become more difficult . this paper
   introduces a personalized food suggestion system with nutritional analysis ,
   a technology based solution aimed at helping users monitor their food
   consumption and offering tailored meal suggestions based on their caloric
   and nutritional needs . the system combines body mass index ( bmi )
   evaluation with a curated dataset featuring food items and their
   corresponding calorie counts . users enter the specifics of the meals they
   had for breakfast , lunch , snacks in the evening , and dinner , while the
   system assesses their total calorie consumption for the day . through the
   utilization of convolutional neural networks ( cnns ) and ai driven
   recommendation systems , the platform creates tailored meal recommendations
   to guarantee a balanced diet that aligns with the user s bmi , food
   preferences , and nutritional requirements . the suggested system enables
   users to track their dietary habits while also supporting them in achieving
   the right calorie intake , avoiding both under nutrition and overeating .
   featuring an intuitive interface and live suggestions , this ai driven food
   recommendation system seeks to improve dietary management , encourage
   healthier eating habits , and assist in tailored nutrition planning
DE body mass index ( bmi ); convolution neural network ( cnn ); nutrition
   analysis; personalized food suggestion
ID neural networks; current; balanced diet; body mass; body mass index;
   convolution neural network; mass index; nutrition analyze; personalized food
   suggestion; tracking system; nutrition

---

UT 2034
AR Nalini C, 2025, LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST, V1226 LNNS, P311, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-78934-2_30
TI Developing Intelligent Food Recommended System with Nutrition Insights
AU Nalini C; Nanthan S; Pranesh PB; Srinithi L
TC 0
SO LECT NOTES NETWORKS SYST
PY 2025
AB in today s fast paced world , making informed and health conscious dietary
   choices has become increasingly challenging . the proliferation of food
   options , coupled with varying nutritional needs and preferences , often
   leaves individuals uncertain about what to eat . this paper introduces an
   innovative intelligent food recommender system with nutrition insights (
   ifrsni ) designed to empower users with personalized , nutrition conscious
   recommendations . the core objective of this project is to leverage
   artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques such as k means ,
   louvain , cosine similarity etc .... to provide users with tailored food
   recommendations based on their individual nutritional requirements , dietary
   preferences , and health goals . the system employs advanced algorithms to
   analyze a vast database of foods , ingredients , and recipes , enabling it
   to generate highly personalized food suggestions . in addition to suggesting
   foods , the system provides comprehensive nutritional information for each
   recommended item . this project aims to promote healthier eating habits by
   assisting users in making informed decisions about their diets . by using
   the power of artificial intelligence , machine learning algorithms and
   personalized nutrition insights , individuals can embark on a journey toward
   improved health and well being . in an era where convenience often trumps
   health , this intelligent food recommender serves as a virtual nutritionist
   , guiding users toward choices that align with their unique dietary needs
   and personal preferences . the intelligent food recommender system with
   nutrition insights represents a significant step toward fostering healthier
   eating habits and combating diet related health issues . by empowering users
   with personalized , nutrition conscious recommendations and insightful
   information , ifrsni contributes to a more health conscious and informed
   society
DE dietary preferences; intelligent food recommender; machine learning
   algorithms; nutrition insights; nutritional analysis; user profiling
ID agri-food; food ingredients; learning systems; machine learning; nutrition;
   recommender systems; artificial intelligence learning; dietary preference;
   eating habits; health conscious; intelligent food recommender; machine
   learning algorithms; nutrition insight; nutritional analyze; recommended
   systems; user profiling; learning algorithms

---

UT 2035
AR Rachitha MV, 2024, MULTIMED TOOLS APPL, V83, P68907, DOI
   10.1007/s11042-023-17954-7
TI OHESV: Optimal hybrid ensemble support vector model for detecting and
   recommendation of food for diabetic patients
AU Rachitha MV; Ramakrishna M
TC 1
SO MULTIMED TOOLS APPL
PY 2024
AB maintaining a healthy diet is essential , particularly for diabetic patients
   who are affected by severe defects . nutrition therapy is vital to avoid the
   effects of diabetes and maintain better health . however , high sugar ,
   fatty foods are significantly avoided by the patients to find alternate food
   from the same group . despite this , there are still variations in diet that
   affect diabetic patients . therefore , this paper proposes an effective food
   recommendation system to suggest suitable dietary plans for patients
   affected by diabetes . the personal health information of patients and
   several food products gathered from the internet of medical things ( iomt )
   dataset are taken as input data for the proposed integrated recommendation
   system . to boost unbiased detection , the data noise present in the iomt
   dataset is eliminated and regularized using preprocessing steps , including
   data cleaning , data reduction , data transformation , data enrichment , and
   data validation . from the preprocessed data , significant feature
   characteristics that contribute more to diabetes detection and food product
   recommendation are selected using the wingsuit flying search ( wfs )
   algorithm . these selected features are then classified using the proposed
   hybrid ensemble support vector deep residual ( hesdr ) approach . this
   approach accurately classifies diabetes and non diabetes patients and
   suggests top nutrient dense food products for patients with diabetes . the
   analytical results show that the proposed hesdr approach achieves a high
   accuracy rate of about 98.3 % compared to other methods . in conclusion ,
   this paper proposes an effective food recommendation system that accurately
   classifies diabetic patients and suggests suitable dietary plans based on
   their health conditions . the approach effectively eliminates data noise and
   selects significant features using the wfs algorithm . the proposed hesdr
   approach accurately classifies diabetic patients and recommends nutrient
   dense food products for them , achieving high accuracy rates
DE diabetic patients; food recommendation; support vector machine; weighted
   average ensemble; wingsuit flying search
ID food products; medical information systems; metadata; nutrients; nutrition;
   recommender systems; data noise; diabetics patients; food recommendation;
   nutrient-dense foods; search algorithms; support vector; support vectors
   machine; weighted average ensemble; weighted averages; wingsuit flying
   search; support vector machines

---

UT 2036
AR Rostami A, 2024, PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS, DOI
   10.1109/EMBC53108.2024.10782762
TI Food Recommendation as Language Processing (F-RLP): A Personalized and
   Contextual Paradigm
AU Rostami A; Jain R; Rahmani AM
TC 2
SO PROC ANNU INT CONF IEEE ENG MED BIOL SOC EMBS
PY 2024
AB state of the art rule based and classification based food recommendation
   systems face significant challenges in becoming practical and useful . this
   difficulty arises primarily because most machine learning models struggle
   with problems characterized by an almost infinite number of classes and a
   limited number of samples within an unbalanced dataset . conversely , the
   emergence of large language models ( llms ) as recommendation engines offers
   a promising avenue . however , a general purpose recommendation as language
   processing ( rlp ) approach lacks the critical components necessary for
   effective food recommendations . to address this gap , we introduce food
   recommendation as language processing ( frlp ) , a novel framework that
   offers a food specific , tailored infrastructure . f rlp leverages the
   capabilities of llms to maximize their potential , thereby paving the way
   for more accurate , personalized food recommendations
ID algorithms; food; humans; machine learning; natural language processing;
   infinite numbers; language model; language processing; machine learning
   models; number of class; number of samples; processing approach; rule based;
   state of the art; unbalanced datasets; algorithm; food; human; machine
   learning; natural language processing; processed foods

---

UT 2037
AR Abdool H, 2015, IEEE PAC RIM CONF COMMUN COMPUT SIGNAL PROCESS PROC,
   V2015-November, P240, DOI 10.1109/PACRIM.2015.7334841
TI Recommend My Dish: A multi-sensory food recommender
AU Abdool H; Pooransingh A; Li Y/3
TC 3
SO IEEE PAC RIM CONF COMMUN COMPUT SIGNAL PROCESS PROC
PY 2015
AB in this paper , the model for a multi sensory food recommender is presented
   , which takes into account both taste and esthetic attributes of food . the
   recommender was designed using a case based reasoning ( cbr ) approach , and
   built with the mycbr framework . the recommender was later integrated into
   an android application prototype , via which potential user feedback was
   obtained . we conducted a preliminary user study in which all participants
   rated their satisfaction with the recommendations above 5 on a scale of 0 to
   10. furthermore , 72 % of participants felt that by considering their
   esthetic preferences in the recommendation process , the system produced
   better recommendations than if they were not considered
DE case based reasoning; image processing; knowledge based systems; mycbr;
   recommender systems
ID image processing; knowledge based systems; recommender systems; signal
   processing; esthetic attributes; esthetic preference; android applications;
   case based reasoning approaches; multisensory; mycbr; potential users; user
   study; case based reasoning

---

UT 2038
AR Shirai SS, 2021, CEUR WORK PROC, V2980
TI Healthy Food Recommendation and Explanation Generation using a Semantically-
   Enabled Framework?
AU Shirai SS; Seneviratne O; Chen CH; Gruen DM; McGuinness DL
TC 0
SO CEUR WORK PROC
PY 2021
AB recommender systems are an important service utilized in a wide variety of
   applications , but they rarely explain the processes and data used to
   generate the final recommendation . furthermore , no con venient software
   resource exists to help developers create recommender systems that use a
   variety of strategies , such as knowledge driven rec ommendation processes .
   we present a python framework to support the development of recommender
   systems with an emphasis on using data sources containing rich semantics and
   providing explanations for each step involved in producing the
   recommendation . we illustrate this through an example food recommendation
   system developed using the framework . 2021 ceur ws
ID semantics; data-source; healthy foods; software resources; recommender
   systems

---

UT 2039
AR Ling Y, 2022, WWW - PROC ACM WEB CONF, P3745, DOI 10.1145/3485447.3514193
TI Following Good Examples - Health Goal-Oriented Food Recommendation based on
   Behavior Data
AU Ling Y; Nie J-Y; Nielsen D; Knäuper B; Yang N; Dubé L
TC 8
SO WWW - PROC ACM WEB CONF
PY 2022
AB typical recommender systems try to mimic the past behaviors of users to make
   future recommendations . for example , in food recommendations , they tend
   to recommend the foods the user prefers . while the recommended foods may be
   easily accepted by the user , it can not improve the user s dietary habits
   for a specific goal such as weight control . in this paper , we build a food
   recommendation system that can be used on the web or in a mobile app to help
   users meet their goals on body weight , while also taking into account their
   health information ( bmi ) and the nutrition information of foods ( calories
   ) . instead of applying dietary guidelines as constraints , we build
   recommendation models from the successful behaviors of comparable users :
   the weight loss model is trained using the historical food consumption data
   of similar users who successfully lost weight . by combining such a goal
   oriented recommendation model with a general model , the recommendations can
   be smoothly tuned toward the goal without disruptive food changes . we
   tested the approach on real data collected from a popular weight management
   app . it is shown that our recommendation approach can better predict the
   foods for test periods where the user truly meets the goal , than the
   typical existing approaches
DE deep learning; food recommendation; health factors; weight loss
ID deep learning; food supply; nutrition; weight control; body weight; deep
   learning; food recommendation; goal-oriented; health factors; health
   informations; mobile app; nutrition informations; on-body; weight loss;
   recommender systems

---

UT 2040
AR Donno D, 2016, J FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V53, P1071, DOI 10.1007/s13197-015-2115-6
TI Phytochemical fingerprint and chemometrics for natural food preparation
   pattern recognition: an innovative technique in food supplement quality
   control
AU Donno D; Boggia R; Zunin P; Cerutti AK; Guido M; Mellano MG; Prgomet Z;
   Beccaro GL
TC 90
SO J FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2016
AB recently , the fingerprint approach using chromatography has become one of
   the most effective tools for quality assessment of herbal medicines and food
   supplements : due to the complexity of the chromatographic fingerprint and
   the irreproducibility of chromatographic instruments and experimental
   conditions , chemometric approach is employed to deal with the
   chromatographic fingerprint . the study was aimed at developing new
   analytical methods for the multivariate phytochemical fingerprinting of
   bioactive compounds in eight tree species bud preparations , commonly used
   in phytotherapy . methods was used to identify and quantify the main
   bioactive compounds ( polyphenols , organic acids and vitamins ) , and
   obtain a specific botanical profile in order to assess the contribution of
   each single bioactive class to the total bud preparation phytocomplex . a
   chemometric approach was used to distinguish among different genotypes
   assuring the identity , safety and quality of the botanical raw materials .
   the established protocol was simple , sensitive and reliable and it could be
   used for the evaluation and quality control of bud extracts and natural food
   supplements : the proposed method was successfully applied to the
   characterization of commercial bud preparations , demonstrating to be an
   effective tool for the fingerprinting of this plant material . the new
   approach developed in this study represents a good alternative for improving
   the classification results of herbal materials with complex chromatograms .
   it should be necessary to develop a ' multivariate chromatographic
   fingerprint ' , in order to differentiate the herbal preparations according
   to their genotype , avoiding substitutions , changes or adulterations with
   other species or synthetic drugs . 2015 , association of food scientists and
   technologists ( india ) .
DE hplc; multivariate fingerprinting; natural food product; raw material
   control
ID characterization; chromatographic analysis; chromatography; pattern
   recognition; plant extracts; chromatographic fingerprints; classification
   results; experimental conditions; hplc; innovative techniques; material
   control; multivariate fingerprinting; natural food; quality control

---

UT 2041
AR Zhao Q, 2026, FOOD RES INT, V226, DOI 10.1016/j.foodres.2025.118202
TI Neuro-sensory evaluation of citrus flavors: A hierarchical spatial fusion
   approach for emotion-driven food innovation
AU Zhao Q; Yang P; Liang Y; Xu Z/3; Chen J; Chen S; Ye X; Cheng H
TC 0
SO FOOD RES INT
PY 2026
AB emotion driven food is gaining increasingly attention in the food industry .
   yet conventional sensory evaluations remain constrained by subjective self
   reports . to enable a more comprehensive understanding of flavor perception
   , this study incorporated both emotional assessment and implicit
   neurophysiological measurement in the evaluation of different citrus flavors
   . a novel hierarchical spatial fusion strategy ( hsfs ) was proposed to
   integrate electroencephalography ( eeg ) signals with self reported
   affective responses based on the customized pleasure arousal dominance ( pad
   ) scales . results revealed that positive emotions were predominant
   subconscious responses to citrus flavor , and significant correlations were
   observed between emotional states and flavor acceptability scores . while
   the emotional labels across individuals appeared consistent , their
   underlying eeg activation patterns exhibit considerable variability . under
   the optimal parameters ( learning rate = 0.0001 , batch = 64 , hidden size =
   640 , and four attention heads and layers ) , the proposed hsfs transformer
   effectively integrated the comprehensive features from both global and local
   attention modules . this model achieved strong performance in binary and
   four class emotion classification , with accuracies of 88.84 % and 82.05 % ,
   respectively . additionally , it demonstrated robust results with f1-scores
   of 86.12 % ( binary ) and 81.72 % ( multi class ) , and cohen s kappa values
   of 72.26 % and 75.21 % , confirming the reliability and consistency of the
   predictions . comparative experiments further validated the architecture ,
   highlighting its strength in capturing the complex and sparse dynamics of
   eeg signals . this research advanced sensory analytics by bridging
   neurophysiological insights and consumer feedback , offering a promising
   tool for precision formulation of emotion modulating functional foods and
   data driven product innovation
DE citrus flavor; electroencephalography; emotion-driven food; olfactory
   perception; transformer
ID adult; citrus; electroencephalography; emotions; female; flavoring agents;
   humans; male; taste; taste perception; young adult; advanced analytics;
   behavioral research; biomedical signal processing; electronic nose;
   neurophysiology; sensory analysis; sensory perception; flavoring agent;
   affective response; citrus flavor; emotion-driven food; flavor perceptions;
   food industries; food innovations; fusion strategies; olfactory perception;
   positive emotions; transformer; article; attention; citrus; controlled
   study; diagnosis; electroencephalogram; electroencephalography; emotion;
   female; flavor; food industry; functional food; human; learning; male;
   pleasure; prediction; reliability; self report; sensory evaluation;
   smelling; subconscious; adult; chemistry; electroencephalography;
   physiology; taste; young adult; electroencephalography; electrophysiology

---

UT 2042
AR Sentellas S, 2021, CHROMATOGR RELAT SEP TECH FOOD INTEGR AUTHENT, V1, P167,
   DOI 10.1142/9781786349958_0007a
TI The role of chemometrics in food integrity and authenticity
AU Sentellas S; Saurina J
TC 7
SO CHROMATOGR RELAT SEP TECH FOOD INTEGR AUTHENT
PY 2021
AB this chapter deals with the assessment of food integrity and authenticity by
   using chemometric methods . the principal analytical platforms for the
   generation of suitable descriptors of food samples , including
   chromatographic and spectroscopic methods , will be introduced . depending
   on the cases , targeted or untargeted approaches based on compositional
   profiles or instrumental fingerprints will results in rich sources of
   information . the huge amount of data obtained in this way will be treated
   with chemometric methods to carry out exploratory sample characterizations ,
   detection of adulterated products , and quantification of adulteration
   percentages . 2021 by world scientific publishing europe ltd

---

UT 2043
AR Granato D, 2018, COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF, V17, P663, DOI
   10.1111/1541-4337.12341
TI Trends in Chemometrics: Food Authentication, Microbiology, and Effects of
   Processing
AU Granato D; Putnik P; Kovačević DB; Santos JS; Calado V; Rocha RS; Cruz AGD;
   Jarvis B; Rodionova OY; Pomerantsev A
TC 427
SO COMPR REV FOOD SCI FOOD SAF
PY 2018
AB in the last decade , the use of multivariate statistical techniques
   developed for analytical chemistry has been adopted widely in food science
   and technology . usually , chemometrics is applied when there is a large and
   complex dataset , in terms of sample numbers , types , and responses . the
   results are used for authentication of geographical origin , farming systems
   , or even to trace adulteration of high value added commodities . in this
   article , we provide an extensive practical and pragmatic overview on the
   use of the main chemometrics tools in food science studies , focusing on the
   effects of process variables on chemical composition and on the
   authentication of foods based on chemical markers . pattern recognition
   methods , such as principal component analysis and cluster analysis , have
   been used to associate the level of bioactive components with in vitro
   functional properties , although supervised multivariate statistical methods
   have been used for authentication purposes . overall , chemometrics is a
   useful aid when extensive , multiple , and complex real life problems need
   to be addressed in a multifactorial and holistic context . undoubtedly ,
   chemometrics should be used by governmental bodies and industries that need
   to monitor the quality of foods , raw materials , and processes when high
   dimensional data are available . we have focused on practical examples and
   listed the pros and cons of the most used chemometric tools to help the user
   choose the most appropriate statistical approach for analysis of complex and
   multivariate data . 2018 institute of food technologists
DE classification; food authentication; multivariate statistical techniques;
   one-class classifiers; pattern recognition
ID authentication; chemical analysis; classification ( of information );
   cluster analysis; clustering algorithms; multivariant analysis; pattern
   recognition; food authentications; food science and technology; functional
   properties; high-dimensional data; multivariate statistical method;
   multivariate statistical techniques; one-class classifier; pattern
   recognition method; principal component analysis

---

UT 2044
AR He J, 2025, CHEM BULL, V88, P1164
TI Research Progress in the Application of Chemometrics to Meat Food Safety
   Identification; [化学计量学在肉类食品安全鉴定的研究进展]
AU He J; Zhang W/7
TC 0
SO CHEM BULL
PY 2025
AB food safety in meat products has become a global concern . developing rapid
   , accurate , and standardized identification technologies for meat safety
   has emerged as a core task to ensure food security and maintain market
   fairness . although traditional analytical methods have shown some
   effectiveness in meat safety identification , their limitations are
   increasingly prominent . chemometrics has become a core technology for
   solving complex problems in meat safety by constructing mathematical models
   and algorithms to deeply analyze multidimensional data from meat food
   testing . this paper introduces chemometrics and reviews the research status
   and progress of chemometrics in meat safety identification , aiming to
   provide a theoretical basis for further research on the application of
   chemometrics in meat safety identification . 2025 editorial office of huaxue
   tongbao
DE chemometrics; meat adulteration; meat safety; origin traceability

---

UT 2045
AR Bertacchini L, 2013, DATA HANDL SCI TECHNOL, V28, P371, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-444-59528-7.00010-7
TI The Impact of Chemometrics on Food Traceability
AU Bertacchini L; Cocchi M; Li Vigni M; Marchetti A; Salvatore E; Sighinolfi S;
   Silvestri M; Durante C
TC 29
SO DATA HANDL SCI TECHNOL
PY 2013
AB in the last decades , mankind has become totally aware about the importance
   of food quality : nowadays authentication and traceability are words of
   general use . food authentication verifies how much a food is in accordance
   with its label description and law and it could be considered a further
   guarantee for the quality and safety of a foodstuff . the traceability of
   food could be considered an essential element in ensuring safety and high
   quality of food . the synergistic use of instrumental analytical techniques
   and chemometrics represents a promising way to obtain trustworthy results in
   the development of authenticity and traceability models . this chapter deals
   with the potentialities of chemometrics tools in resolving some real issues
   related to food traceability and authenticity . particular attention will be
   paid to the use of some exploratory , classification , and discrimination
   techniques . in the first part of this chapter , a briefly description of
   european regulations ( authenticity and traceability : the european union
   point of view ) , and traceability and authenticity markers ( authenticity
   and traceability : a scientific point of view ) is reported . the second
   part is split into two sections : namely food authenticity and food
   traceability applications , where the main features and advantages of some
   chemometrics approaches are presented
DE authenticity; chemometrics; direct and indirect indicators; food;
   traceability

---

UT 2046
AR Sentellas S, 2019, CAPILL ELECTROPHOR EARLY TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY TRENDS
   RELEV APPL, P37
TI The Role of Capillary Electrophoresis in the Chemometric Characterization of
   Food Products
AU Sentellas S; Saurina J
TC 1
SO CAPILL ELECTROPHOR EARLY TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY TRENDS RELEV APPL
PY 2019
AB the characterization of food products based on compositional profiles of
   natural components obtained by capillary electrophoresis ( ce ) is discussed
   here . ce with different detection techniques , especially uvvisible
   spectroscopy and mass spectrometry , has widely been used for the generation
   of data to be further processed by chemometrics . it has been demonstrated
   that contents of food constituents are dependent on climatic , agricultural
   and manufacturing issues so they can be exploited as chemical descriptors of
   food features and quality . chemometrics has widely been used as a way of
   facilitating the extraction of information dealing with food properties . in
   this regard , cluster analysis , principal component analysis and related
   methods are currently used for discrimination , classification , modeling
   and authentication purposes . we will comment on some representative
   examples to illustrate the possibilities of ce combined with chemometrics
   for the study of food products
DE chemometrics; fingerprinting; food authentication; food characterization;
   food classification; profiling

---

UT 2047
AR Singh RP/1, 1998, LAT APPL RES, V28, P217
TI Advances in predictive modeling in food frying and cooking processes
AU Singh RP/1; Vijayan J
TC 1
SO LAT APPL RES
PY 1998
AB predictive modeling is a useful technique to study heat and mass transfer in
   food processing operations . recently , predictive models have been
   developed with applications in food freezing , drying and frying areas . in
   this paper , a predictive model developed for frying of a pre frozen food
   material is described . the results of these models are useful in developing
   improved guidelines for food processing operations .
DE cooking; foods; frying; modeling; predictive

---

UT 2048
AR Bona E, 2018, FOOD CONTROL BIOS, V16, P105, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-12-811445-2.00004-0
TI Chemometrics Applied to Food Control
AU Bona E; Março PH; Valderrama P
TC 28
SO FOOD CONTROL BIOS
PY 2018
AB in this chapter , we present the basic principles of some linear and
   nonlinear chemometric methods applied in quality control and biosecurity of
   food . for linear methods , applications are addressed using principal
   component analysis ( pca ) , partial least squares ( pls ) and partial least
   squares with discriminant analysis ( pls da ) . in the nonlinear methods ,
   self organizing maps ( som ) , support vector regression ( svr ) and support
   vector classification ( svc ) are covered . thus , exploratory analysis ,
   regression , and classification problems are presented for both linear as
   for nonlinear approaches . in addition , some insight about data preparation
   and model validation using figures of merit will be provided
DE figures of merit; partial least squares; partial least squares with
   discriminant analysis; principal component analysis; self-organizing maps;
   support vector classification; support vector regression
ID conformal mapping; discriminant analysis; food supply; least squares
   approximations; nonlinear analysis; principal component analysis; regression
   analysis; self-organizing maps; vectors; chemometric method; exploratory
   analysis; figures of merits; nonlinear methods; nonlinear approach; partial
   least square ( pls ); support vector classification; support vector
   regression ( svr ); quality control

---

UT 2049
AR Kern C, 2021, INT J FOOD MICROBIOL, V349, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2021.109230
TI Predictive modeling of the early stages of semi-solid food ripening: Spatio-
   temporal dynamics in semi-solid casein matrices
AU Kern C; Stefan T; Sacharow J; Kügler P; Hinrichs J
TC 2
SO INT J FOOD MICROBIOL
PY 2021
AB a mechanistic , spatio temporal model to predict early stage semi solid food
   ripening , exemplary for semi solid casein matrices , was created using
   software based on the finite element method ( fem ) . the model was refined
   and validated by experimental data obtained during 8 wk of ripening of a
   casein matrix that was inoculated by one single central injection of starter
   culture . the resulting spatio temporal distributions of lactococci strains
   , lactose , lactic acid / lactate and ph allowed us to optimize a number of
   parameters of the predictive model . using the optimized model , the
   agreement between simulation and experiment was found to be satisfactory ,
   with the ph matching best . the predictive model unveiled that effective
   diffusion of substrate and metabolites were crucial for an eventual
   homogeneous distribution of the measured substances . hence , while using
   the optimized parameters from the single injection model , an injection
   technology for starter culture to inoculate and ferment casein matrices
   homogeneously was developed by means of solving another optimization problem
   with respect to injection positions . the casein matrix inoculated by the
   proposed injection pattern ( 21 injections , distance = 19 mm ) showed
   sufficient homogeneity ( bacterial activity and ph distribution ) after the
   early stages of ripening , demonstrating the potential of application of the
   injection technology for fermentation of casein based foods e . g . cheese
DE cheese ripening; model validation; optimization; reaction-diffusion
   equations; spatio-temporal predictive modeling in food
ID caseins; cheese; fermentation; food handling; food microbiology; hydrogen-
   ion concentration; lactic acid; lactococcus; lactose; models theoretical;
   casein; lactic acid; lactose; casein; article; cheese ripening; controlled
   study; fermentation; finite element analysis; microbial activity; molecular
   dynamics; ph; reaction-diffusion model; software; cheese; food control; food
   handling; lactococcus; metabolism; microbiology; procedures; theoretical
   model

---

UT 2050
AR Oliveri P, 2020, COMPR CHEMOM CHEM BIOCHEM DATA ANAL ED VOL SET, V4, P99,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-12-409547-2.14748-1
TI 4.05 - Application of Chemometrics in the Food Sciences
AU Oliveri P; Malegori C; Mustorgi E; Casale M
TC 14
SO COMPR CHEMOM CHEM BIOCHEM DATA ANAL ED VOL SET
PY 2020
AB research works in the fields of food sciences are typically characterized by
   an elevated level of complexity , which reflects the multifaceted complexity
   of food matrices , transformations , processes and related phenomena . to
   properly address the study of data associated , the application of
   multivariate methods is definitely appropriate and functional . the present
   review article describes the main chemometric methods applied in the food
   sciences , from multivariate design of experiments to multivariate data
   analysis . this latter branch includes both unsupervised tools such as
   exploratory analysis and supervised techniques , usually applied to provide
   qualitative and quantitative predictive models . an overview of the
   principal applications of multivariate methods to food problems is
   critically presented and discussed , examining the scientific literature of
   the 200818 period . 2020 elsevier b.v . all rights reserved
DE chemometrics; class-modeling; classification; cluster analysis ( ca ); food
   authentication; multivariate design of experiments ( mdoe ); principal
   component analysis ( pca ); quality control; regression; supervised;
   unsupervised

---

UT 2051
AR De Carvalho Rocha WF, 2020, MOL, V25, DOI 10.3390/molecules25133025
TI Comparison of chemometric problems in food analysis using non-linear methods
AU De Carvalho Rocha WF; Do Prado CB; Blonder N
TC 41
SO MOL
PY 2020
AB food analysis is a challenging analytical problem , often addressed using
   sophisticated laboratory methods that produce large data sets . linear and
   non linear multivariate methods can be used to process these types of
   datasets and to answer questions such as whether product origin is
   accurately labeled or whether a product is safe to eat . in this review , we
   present the application of non linear methods such as artificial neural
   networks , support vector machines , self organizing maps , and multi layer
   artificial neural networks in the field of chemometrics related to food
   analysis . we discuss criteria to determine when non linear methods are
   better suited for use instead of traditional methods . the principles of
   algorithms are described , and examples are presented for solving the
   problems of exploratory analysis , classification , and prediction
DE artificial neural networks ( ann ); chemometrics; food analysis; nonlinear
   methods; self-organizing maps ( som ); support vector machine ( svm )

---

UT 2052
AR Tsekwi GR, 2026, J FOOD MEAS CHARACT, V20, P2439, DOI
   10.1007/s11694-025-03806-5
TI Enhancing quality and safety monitoring of cold chain foods through
   integrating chemometrics with spectroscopy: concepts and practical
   implementations
AU Tsekwi GR; Ma J; Sun D-W/1
TC 2
SO J FOOD MEAS CHARACT
PY 2026
AB maintaining a robust cold chain to ensure adequate food quality and safety ,
   minimize food losses , and optimize resource and energy utilization remains
   a key objective in the food industry . the application of spectroscopic and
   chemometric techniques for food quality analysis within the cold chain has
   shown significant potential over traditional methods , owing to their rapid
   , non invasive , and reliable evaluation capabilities . this review
   systematically presents the principles of various chemometric approaches
   such as principal component analysis ( pca ) , cluster analysis ( ca ) , k
   nearest neighbors ( knn ) , artificial neural networks ( anns ) , and
   partial least squares ( pls ) in combination with spectroscopic technologies
   , including visible / near infrared ( vis / nir ) , infrared ( ir ) , mid
   infrared ( mir ) , nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) , hyperspectral
   imaging ( hsi ) , fourier transform infrared ( ftir ) , and raman
   spectroscopy , for the qualitative and quantitative assessment of food
   quality . by placing particular emphasis on the application of pca and pls
   in evaluating food quality during the cooling , freezing , and storage
   stages of the cold chain , several studies demonstrate that this combined
   approach offers considerable promise for rapid analysis of complex datasets
   , effective quality monitoring , food authentication , and overall cold
   chain optimization . this review uniquely integrates chemometrics and
   spectroscopy applications across the cold chain , providing a consolidated
   framework that has not been systematically presented in prior reviews .
   furthermore , it identifies key challenges and outlines future research
   directions aimed at enhancing the reliability , accuracy , and industrial
   applicability of these techniques across diverse cold chain scenarios
DE chemometrics; cold chain; food authenticity; food quality; food safety;
   spectroscopy
ID accident prevention; authentication; chains; cluster analysis; food safety;
   food storage; industrial research; infrared devices; least squares
   approximations; neural networks; principal component analysis; quality
   control; spectrum analysis; thermal processing ( foods ); chemometrices;
   cold chain; food authenticity; food quality; food safety; partial least
   squares; principal component analysis; quality and safeties; quality
   monitoring; safety monitoring; spectroscopic analysis

---

UT 2053
AR Xu Y/1, 2020, TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM, V131, DOI 10.1016/j.trac.2020.116017
TI Raman spectroscopy coupled with chemometrics for food authentication: A
   review
AU Xu Y/1; Zhong P; Jiang A/1; Shen X/1; Li X/10; Xu Z/4; Shen Y; Sun Y/1; Lei
   H
TC 228
SO TRAC TRENDS ANAL CHEM
PY 2020
AB in recent years , the frequent economically motivated adulteration ( ema )
   caused by component displacement , illegal addition , and other problems
   makes the food authenticity become a global issue , which requires
   appropriate identification methods . raman spectroscopy combination with
   chemometrics becomes a rapid , non destructive method to verify the nature
   or origin of food . this review assembles and comprehensively summarizes the
   principle , workflow , advantages , challenges and applications of raman
   spectroscopy in food authenticity . besides , existing problems and
   outlooking on raman spectroscopy are also discussed
DE chemometrics; food authentication; food authenticity; nondestructive testing
   method; raman spectroscopy
ID authentication; nondestructive examination; chemometrics; existing problems;
   food authentications; food authenticity; global issues; identification
   method; nondestructive methods; chemometrics; raman spectrometry; review;
   workflow; raman spectroscopy

---

UT 2054
AR Indrayanto G, 2020, SPECTROSC TECH & ARTIF INTELL FOOD BEVERAGE ANAL, P25,
   DOI 10.1007/978-981-15-6495-6_2
TI The Use of FTIR Spectroscopy Combined with Multivariate Analysis in Food
   Composition Analysis
AU Indrayanto G; Rohman A
TC 15
SO SPECTROSC TECH & ARTIF INTELL FOOD BEVERAGE ANAL
PY 2020
AB infrared spectroscopy , one of the vibrational spectroscopies , has emerged
   as rapid and powerful analytical technique for identification and
   quantitative analysis of food component . ftir spectra is fingerprint
   analytical technique , therefore , by selecting the specific region , some
   analytical purposes can be achieved such as identification , confirmation
   and quantitative analysis of analyte ( s ) of interest in food samples .
   equipped with some sampling technique such as attenuated total reflectance
   and combined with chemometrics software such as principal component analysis
   for classification and multivariate calibration for multicomponent analysis
   , ftir spectroscopy has been successfully used for compositional analysis of
   food . the method is rapid with minimum or without sample preparation and is
   not involving the extensive solvents and reagents . springer nature
   singapore pte ltd . 2020 .
DE authentication analysis; chemometrics; fingerprint technique; food
   composition; ftir spectroscopy

---

UT 2055
AR Lozano-Castellón J, 2024, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V147, DOI
   10.1016/j.tifs.2024.104430
TI Proven traceability strategies using chemometrics for organic food
   authenticity
AU Lozano-Castellón J; Laveriano-Santos EP; Abuhabib MM; Pozzoli C; Pérez M;
   Vallverdú-Queralt A; Lamuela-Raventós RM
TC 21
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB background : risk of fraudulent mislabeling of organic food , driven by
   higher prices and a more favorable consumer perception , underscores the
   necessity for accurate authentication of organic products . different
   analytical approaches and statistical analysis have been developed to
   classify between organic and conventional food . scope and approach : in
   this review the current analytical approaches to detect organic food
   mislabeling are described . potential and validated markers of organic
   traceability are explained , together with the techniques and statistical
   analysis employed . in this article , all the different foods have been
   reviewed and are presented by type of food . key findings and conclusions :
   variations in the elemental and stable isotopic ratios of fertilizers lead
   to differences in plant food ratios . in the case of animal food products ,
   the distinct ratio in organic results in a final product with a unique
   elemental and stable isotopic composition . those could be used for
   authenticating organic food . in addition , the different fertilization
   promotes different metabolic pathways leaving a distinct metabolic signature
   , hence targeted and untargeted metabolomic analysis permits the
   traceability of organic food . finally , the use of soft classification
   models such as simca , pls da or opls da permits the classification of
   organic food and enables prediction of whether a new sample is conventional
   or organic
DE elemental analysis; food fraud detection; hrms; inductively coupled plasma
   mass spectrometry; isotope-ratio mass spectrometry; nmr
ID authentication; isotopes; mass spectrometry; metabolism; risk perception;
   statistical methods; analytical approach; chemometrices; food authenticity;
   food fraud detection; fraud detection; hrms; inductively coupled plasma mass
   spectrometry; isotope-ratio mass spectrometry; organic foods; organics; food
   products

---

UT 2056
AR Abdul R, 2024, CHEMOM DATA TREAT APPL, P125, DOI
   10.1016/B978-0-443-21493-6.00006-X
TI Near infrared (NIR) and fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy
   combined with chemometrics for agrifood products analysis
AU Abdul R; Riana L; Fajar Aji L
TC 8
SO CHEMOM DATA TREAT APPL
PY 2024
AB infrared ( ir ) spectroscopy , either in the near infrared region or
   midinfrared region , is one of the vibrational spectroscopic methods based
   on the interaction of electromagnetic radiation in ir regions to provide the
   vibrational transitions of functional groups present in the evaluated
   samples . due to the uniqueness of fingerprint region for each compound ,
   spectra obtained from the scanning of near infrared spectroscopy ( nirs )
   and fourier transform infrared ( ftir ) spectroscopy offer rapid and
   reliable methods for identification , qualitative and quantitative analyzes
   of the objects analyzed , including agrifood products . the response
   obtained from nirs and ftir spectral measurement involved a large number of
   datasets . therefore the application of chemometrics or multivariate data
   analysis is a must . the chemometrics of pattern recognition and
   multivariate calibrations combined with spectra of nirs and ftir are
   successfully applied for the analysis of agrifood products . 2024 by
   elsevier inc
DE agri-food products; analytical chemistry analysis; chemometrics; ftir
   spectroscopy; nir spectra; quality control; spectroscopy

---

UT 2057
AR Zepeda L, 2012, AGRIC HUM VALUES, V29, P467, DOI 10.1007/s10460-012-9364-z
TI What are the odds of being an organic or local food shopper?  Multivariate
   analysis of US food shopper lifestyle segments
AU Zepeda L; Nie C
TC 72
SO AGRIC HUM VALUES
PY 2012
AB the growth in organic and local foods consumption has been examined using
   two different approaches to identify characteristics and motivations of food
   shoppers : market segmentation and economic models using multivariate
   analysis . the former approach , based on means end chain theory , examines
   how intrinsic characteristics of foods affect food choices . the latter
   microeconomic approach examines economic constraints and extrinsic factors .
   this study demonstrates value in combining the two approaches to generate
   better empirical predictions of who buys organic and local food . it also
   supports a broader theoretical framework to explain behavior in terms of
   intrinsic and extrinsic motivations . using us data , an adaptation of the
   food related lifestyle model yields four consumer lifestyles segmented by
   intrinsic motivations related to food . each consumer segment exhibits
   distinct organic and local foods consumption behaviors . a multinomial logit
   model is estimated to examine the probability of being in one of these four
   groups as a function of extrinsic variables and economic constraints . in
   support of alphabet theory and regulatory focus theory , we find that
   inclusion of extrinsic factors improves prediction of behavior and the
   ability to explain why they buy organic and local foods . the extrinsic
   variables that significantly increase the probability of being in a
   particular consumer food lifestyle segment include : environmental concerns
   , health practices , race , the presence of a farmers market , and to a
   lesser degree , family composition and income . we also find regulatory
   focus is most pronounced among the most active organic and local food
   shoppers
DE alphabet theory; consumer behavior; lifestyle segmentation

---

UT 2058
AR Szefer P, 2026, CHEMOM FOOD CONTROL BASED ELEM ANAL, P1, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-99687-0
TI Chemometrics in Food Control Based on Elemental Analysis
AU Szefer P
TC 1
SO CHEMOM FOOD CONTROL BASED ELEM ANAL
PY 2026
AB this book presents an overview of chemometric assessments of analytical
   dataset in order to determine the authenticity / adulteration of food ,
   animal and plant origin , including meat , fish , seafood , milk and dairy
   products , honey , cereals and grains , olive oils and oilseeds , vegetables
   , mushrooms , fruits , tea , coffee , cocoa , sugar , mineral and drinking
   water , and wines and other alcoholic beverages . the text uses modern
   analytical methods / techniques coupled with appropriate chemometric tools
   to demonstrate that chemometrics is a necessary and powerful tool for food
   analysis and its control . another main concern is traceability , i . e .
   the possibility of verifying the geographical , animal / botanical and / or
   productive origin of a foodstuff . hence the use of chemometric techniques
   is not only recommended but essential . since the food is characterized by a
   complex matrix , the strategy to study its elemental profile should be
   multivariate . the reported data are extensively tabulated and graphically
   presented . this book is useful for food chemists , quality control
   professionals , nutrition and public health educators , analytical chemists
   , food manufacturers , environmental scientists and students , and
   practicing professions in food chemistry and food safety
ID agri-food; alcoholic beverages; fish; food chemistry; food safety; food
   supply; meats; public health; quality control; tea; analytical method;
   cereals and grains; chemometric techniques; chemometric tools;
   chemometrices; food analysis; food animals; food control; food plants; plant
   origin; cereal products

---

UT 2059
AR Karabagias IK, 2024, EUR FOOD RES TECHNOL, V250, P1269, DOI
   10.1007/s00217-024-04477-0
TI Food authentication and adulteration control based on metrics data of foods
   and chemometrics
AU Karabagias IK
TC 19
SO EUR FOOD RES TECHNOL
PY 2024
AB great effort has been carried out the last years from the food sector for
   the understanding of food authentication , as the term has been well
   supported by numerous research articles , including data raised from
   conventional and instrumental analyzes in combination with chemometrics or
   other machine learning tools . the term is getting more and more value by
   the official authorities as the last years the economically motivated
   adulteration ( food fraud ) happens more often with the economic losses for
   the governments at a global level being really scaring . considering the
   above , the current review highlights a considerable number of recent
   protocols implemented for the authentication and adulteration control of
   plant based and animal based foods , focusing on honey , olive oil , seafood
   , juices , spices , pine nuts , etc . , based on metrics data of foods , to
   cover all the essential aspects of food authentication and defense against
   food adulteration / fraud . the author ( s ) , under exclusive license to
   springer verlag gmbh germany , part of springer nature 2024 .
DE adulteration control; chemometrics; food authentication; food metrics
ID authentication; losses; adulteration control; chemometrices; economic loss;
   food adulterations; food authentications; food metric; food sector;
   instrumental analysis; learning tool; machine learning; olive oil

---

UT 2060
AR Forina M, 2009, COMPR CHEMOM, V4, P75, DOI 10.1016/B978-044452701-1.00124-1
TI Application of Chemometrics to Food Chemistry
AU Forina M; Casale M/1; Oliveri P/1
TC 35
SO COMPR CHEMOM
PY 2009
AB the applications of chemometrics in food chemistry are evaluated especially
   in the case of research work performed on proprietary data by food chemists
   , with an overview on the food studied , on the chemometric techniques
   applied , the type and the number of variables , and the number of samples .
   some frequent misunderstandings and errors are indicated . improvements in
   the application of the fundamental chemometric techniques are suggested the
   design to collect representative samples , the careful use of clustering
   techniques , the evaluation of the uncertainty in classification parameters
   , and the evaluation of the effect of noisy information . 2009 elsevier b.v
DE cheese; class-modeling; classification; clustering; coffee; food chemistry;
   leverage ( effect on uncertainty ); misclassification probability; noisy
   predictors; olive oil; prediction rate ( uncertainty ); sampling design;
   seriation; significance of clusters ( tests ); wine

---

UT 2061
AR Stefan T, 2016, INT CONF SIMUL MODEL FOOD BIO-IND FOODSIM, P88
TI Modelling spatiotemporal dynamics in a food matrix initiated by injected
   starter cultures
AU Stefan T
TC 0
SO INT CONF SIMUL MODEL FOOD BIO-IND FOODSIM
PY 2016
AB we show how a spatiotemporal model that tracks changes in concentrations of
   microorganisms and their metabolites during cheese ripening , as well as
   their interactions , can be built by using a commercial software that
   includes a physics interfaces for handling cfd ( computational fluid
   dynamics ) in porous media . such a model overcomes the main disadvantage of
   traditional models in predictive microbiology , namely their restricted use
   for food products that are not homogeneous , and their lack of a spatial
   component . we finally demonstrate how this model can be used to optimize
   parameters and thus increase the efficiency of the fermentation process .
DE finite-element-method; optimization; partial differential equations;
   reaction-diffusion; spatio-temporal predictive modeling in food
ID computational fluid dynamics; fermentation; food products; modal analysis;
   partial differential equations; porous materials; cfd ( computational fluid
   dynamics ); fermentation process; optimizations; predictive microbiology;
   predictive modeling; reaction-diffusion; spatio-temporal dynamics; spatio-
   temporal models; finite-element-method

---

UT 2062
AR Gauchi J-P, 2010, COMMUN STAT SIMUL COMPUT, V39, P322, DOI
   10.1080/03610910903448799
TI New prediction interval and band in the nonlinear regression model:
   Application to predictive modeling in foods
AU Gauchi J-P; Vila J-P; Coroller L
TC 7
SO COMMUN STAT SIMUL COMPUT
PY 2010
AB this article is concerned with the proposal of a new prediction interval and
   band for the nonlinear regression model . the construction principle of this
   interval and band is based on an exact ( the meaning of the term ' exact '
   will be given later ) confidence region for parameters of the nonlinear
   regression model . this region , fully described in vila and gauchi ( 2007 )
   , provides a rigorous justification for the new prediction interval and band
   that we propose . this new band is then compared to the classical bands (
   which are asymptotic and thus approximate for small n ) , and also to the
   band based on the bootstrap resampling method . the comparison of these
   bands is undertaken with simulated and real data from predictive modeling in
   food science . copyright taylor and francis group , llc .
DE food science; nonlinear regression; parametric confidence region; prediction
   band; prediction interval
ID forecasting; bootstrap resampling; confidence region; construction
   principle; food science; nonlinear regression; nonlinear regression models;
   prediction interval; predictive modeling; regression analysis

---

UT 2063
AR Izah S, 2025, MITIG STRATEG RISK MANAG FOOD CONTAM, P85, DOI
   10.4018/979-8-3373-7052-1.ch003
TI Risk Assessment Frameworks and Predictive Modeling for Food Safety Decision-
   Making
AU Izah S
TC 0
SO MITIG STRATEG RISK MANAG FOOD CONTAM
PY 2025
AB food safety is a critical public health priority amid increasingly complex
   global food supply chains . this chapter explores the integration of
   predictive modeling with traditional risk assessment frameworks to enhance
   food safety decision making . it outlines core principles of risk assessment
   ( hazard identification , hazard characterization , exposure assessment ,
   and risk characterization ) within global frameworks . the chapter then
   examines predictive modeling approaches , including statistical ,
   mechanistic , and machine learning methods , to forecast microbial growth ,
   contamination , and outbreaks . it highlights how these models complement
   traditional assessments to support proactive , dynamic risk management .
   challenges such as data quality , model transparency , and regulatory
   acceptance are addressed , along with opportunities enabled by iot ,
   blockchain , etc . the chapter concludes with strategic recommendations for
   policymakers , industry professionals , and researchers committed to
   building resilient , tech driven food safety systems in the digital era
ID accident prevention; data quality; food safety; hazards; learning systems;
   prediction models; risk assessment; risk management; decisions makings;
   exposure assessment; food supply chain; food safety; framework models;
   hazard identification; health priorities; predictive models; risk assessment
   framework; risks assessments; decision making

---

UT 2064
AR Aleixandre-Tudo JL, 2022, CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST, V222, DOI
   10.1016/j.chemolab.2022.104514
TI Chemometrics in food science and technology: A bibliometric study
AU Aleixandre-Tudo JL; Castello-Cogollos L; Aleixandre JL; Aleixandre-Benavent
   R
TC 51
SO CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST
PY 2022
AB chemometrics has been defined as the discipline that provides maximum
   information from chemical data . food science and technology applications
   use chemical data and are therefore suitable for chemometrics evaluation .
   bibliometric studies provide an enhanced understanding of the progression ,
   research status as well as future trends of a research field . the main aim
   of the study was therefore , to provide a bibliometric evaluation of the
   research literature employing chemometrics techniques in food science and
   technology applications . for this , a search strategy including the single
   term chemometric was performed . the metadata obtained from the bibliometric
   search was subsequently analyzed . indicators of the scientific productivity
   and quality such as the number of articles , citations , or funding activity
   , were obtained in combination with the most relevant keywords , authors ,
   and countries . the progression over time of the bibliometric indicators was
   also presented and discussed . chemometrics appeared as a prolific and
   healthy research field with increased funding received in the last decade .
   pca , pls and da are still the preferred methods for most applications . a
   big part of the research is related to the combined use of spectroscopy and
   chemometrics . finally , china and brazil appeared as the leading countries
   in applying chemometrics to foodstuffs
DE bibliometrics; chemometrics; foodstuffs; pca; pls; spectroscopy
ID article; bibliometrics; brazil; chemometrics; china; food; funding;
   metadata; nutritional science; productivity; spectroscopy

---

UT 2065
AR da Costa FKC, 2024, INT J FOOD MICROBIOL, V416, DOI
   10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2024.110662
TI Modeling the influence of propionic acid concentration and pH on the
   kinetics of Salmonella Typhimurium
AU da Costa FKC; Carciofi BAM; de Aragão GMF; Ienczak JL
TC 7
SO INT J FOOD MICROBIOL
PY 2024
AB salmonella typhimurium is a foodborne pathogen often found in the poultry
   production chain . antibiotics have been used to reduce s . typhimurium
   contamination in poultry aviaries and improve chicken growth . however ,
   antibiotics were banned in several countries . alternatively , organic acids
   , such as propionic acid ( pa ) , can control pathogens . this study
   determined the pa minimum inhibitory concentration ( mic ) , minimum
   bactericidal concentration ( mbc ) , and mathematically modeled s .
   typhimurium growth / inactivation kinetics under the influence of pa at
   different ph values ( 4.5 , 5.5 , and 6.5 ) which are within the ph range of
   the chicken gastrointestinal tract . the pa mic against s . typhimurium was
   ph dependent , resulting in 5.0 , 3.5 and 9.0 mm undissociated pa at ph 4.5
   , 5.5 , and 6.5 , respectively . the baranyi and roberts and the weibull
   model fit growth and inactivation data well , respectively . secondary
   models were proposed . the validated model predicted 3-log reduction of s .
   typhimurium in 3 h at 68.2 mm of undissociated pa and ph 4.5. the models
   presented a good capacity to describe the kinetics of s . typhimurium
   subjected to pa , representing a useful tool to predict pa antibacterial
   action depending on the ph
DE antimicrobial; food predictive modeling; food safety; foodborne pathogen;
   organic acid
ID animals; anti-bacterial agents; chickens; colony count microbial; hydrogen-
   ion concentration; kinetics; propionates; salmonella typhimurium; drinking
   water; propionic acid; antiinfective agent; propionic acid; anti-bacterial
   activity; article; bacterial count; bacterial strain; bacterium culture;
   broiler; controlled study; dissociation; dissociation constant; effective
   concentration; mathematical model; minimum bactericidal concentration;
   minimum inhibitory concentration; nonhuman; ph; prediction; reproducibility;
   salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium; statistical model; animal; gallus
   gallus; kinetics; microbiology; ph

---

UT 2066
AR Pirhadi M, 2025, RESULTS CHEM, V18, DOI 10.1016/j.rechem.2025.102871
TI Classification of meat species in sausage products using FTIR spectroscopy
   and multivariate analysis for food authentication
AU Pirhadi M; Shariatifar N; Pirhadi S; Jahed Khaniki G; Amanlou M; Sadighara
   P; Molaee-Aghaee E
TC 0
SO RESULTS CHEM
PY 2025
AB the growing concern about food fraud and mislabeling has created a need for
   reliable and efficient methods to identify meat species in processed
   products . this study introduces a non destructive approach using fourier
   transform infrared ( ftir ) spectroscopy to classify beef , chicken , donkey
   , and horse meat in sausage formulations . a total of 80 sausage samples
   were analyzed ( 20 samples per species ) . ftir spectral data underwent
   preprocessing and dimensionality reduction prior to classification with four
   machine learning models . among these , the random forest model achieved the
   best overall performance , with 100 % accuracy and a macro f1-score of 1.00
   ( 95 % ci [ 1.001.00 ] ) on the independent test set . logistic regression
   and k nearest neighbors also achieved perfect test performance , while
   support vector machine reached 96 % accuracy ( 95 % ci [ 0.881.00 ] , f1 =
   0.95 ) . these findings demonstrate the feasibility of ftir for rapid meat
   species identification and offer a practical tool for regulators and
   industry stakeholders to enhance consumer trust and combat food fraud
DE fourier transform infrared spectroscopy; machine learning; meat products;
   meat species; quality control

---

UT 2067
AR Sádecká J, 2007, CZECH J FOOD SCI, V25, P159, DOI 10.17221/687-cjfs
TI Fluorescence spectroscopy and chemometrics in the food classification - A
   review
AU Sádecká J; Tóthová J
TC 206
SO CZECH J FOOD SCI
PY 2007
AB this review deals with the last few years articles on various fluorescence
   techniques ( conventional , excitation emission matrix , and synchronous
   fluorescence spectroscopy ) as a tool for the classification of food samples
   . chemometric methods as principal component analysis , hierarchical cluster
   analysis , parallel factor analysis , and factorial discriminate analysis
   are briefly reminded . the respective publications are then listed according
   to the food samples : dairy products , eggs , meat , fish , edible oils ,
   and others .
DE chemometrics; fluorescence spectroscopy; food analysis

---

UT 2068
AR Wiesner A, 2025, EUR J PHARM BIOPHARM, V208, DOI 10.1016/j.ejpb.2025.114652
TI Navigating through chemometrics: Unveiling antibiotic-food interactions for
   improved pediatric formulations ahead
AU Wiesner A; Zagrodzki P; Gawalska A; Marcinkowska M; Cios A; Paśko P
TC 0
SO EUR J PHARM BIOPHARM
PY 2025
AB background : given the challenges of pediatric antibacterial therapy , it is
   crucial to formulate antibiotics with a lower potential for interaction with
   dietary interventions and tailor them for optimal administration in children
   . chemometric methods allow us to analyze multiple interrelated variables
   simultaneously and uncover correlations . aim : we applied a chemometric
   approach to examine how food , beverages , antacids , and mineral
   supplements affect antibiotic bioavailability in adults and children ,
   aiming to explore relationships between antibiotic structure ,
   physicochemical properties , and post meal changes in pharmacokinetic ( pk )
   parameters . methods : we selected 95 antibacterial drugs for analysis ,
   including beta lactams ( 32 ) , quinolones ( 25 ) , macrolides ( 13 ) ,
   tetracyclines ( 16 ) , and others ( 9 ) . the input dataset comprised
   information from published clinical trials , chemical records , and
   calculations . we constructed hierarchical partial least squares ( pls )
   models with changes in pk parameters ( auc , cmax , tmax , and t 12 ) as
   response parameters and nine groups of molecular descriptors ( m1-m9 ) as
   predictor parameters . we performed analyzes separately in children and
   adults for different dietary interventions . results : in the final 10 pls
   models , significant components explained 6190 % and 10.354.4 % of the
   variance in the predictor and response parameter sets , respectively . we
   obtained 59 significant positive and negative correlations between
   antibiotic structure or physicochemical properties ( molecular descriptors )
   and action in the human body in the presence of food , antacids , or mineral
   supplements ( changes in pk parameters ) , of which 41 concern pediatric
   patients . conclusions : chemometric methods can be helpful and valuable in
   investigating the interactions between antibiotics and dietary interventions
   . using chemometrics may pave the way for formulating antibiotics for
   children with a lower potential to interact with food
DE antibiotics; chemometrics; children; cluster analysis; food; partial least
   square; pediatric
ID adult; anti-bacterial agents; biological availability; chemistry
   pharmaceutical; chemometrics; child; drug compounding; food-drug
   interactions; humans; antacid agent; antibiotic agent; beta lactam; beta
   lactam antibiotic; macrolide; mineral; quinoline derived antiinfective
   agent; tetracycline derivative; antiinfective agent; adult; antibiotic
   therapy; area under the curve; article; beverage; bioavailability;
   chemometric analysis; chemometrics; child; cluster analysis; controlled
   study; correlation analysis; diet; diet therapy; drug absorption; drug
   bioavailability; drug distribution; drug formulation; drug metabolism; drug
   structure; elimination half-life; food; food-drug interaction; human; least
   square analysis; maximum concentration; meal; partial least squares
   regression; pediatric patient; pharmacokinetic parameters; physical
   chemistry; plasma concentration-time curve; variance; bioavailability;
   chemistry; chemometrics; drug formulation; medicinal chemistry; procedures

---

UT 2069
AR Singh RP, 1998, FOOD SCI TECHNOL INT, V4, P303, DOI
   10.1177/108201329800400503
TI Predictive modeling in food process design; [Modelos de predicción para el
   diseño de tratamientos de alimentos]
AU Singh RP; Vijayan J
TC 8
SO FOOD SCI TECHNOL INT
PY 1998
AB predictive modeling is a powerful tool in designing and evaluating food
   processing systems . this technique relies primarily on the fundamental
   mechanisms governing a process , where the observed mechanisms are expressed
   with mathematical equations . the mathematical models are converted to a
   numerical scheme for solution using a computer . the results from predictive
   modeling are useful in examining the influence of changing operating
   conditions on the performance of a process . as an illustration , the
   predictive modeling approach was used in determining rates of heat transfer
   in foods undergoing frying . the frying process was considered to involve a
   moving interface inside a food material , between the crust layer and the
   core region of a food . conduction heat transfer was considered in the crust
   layer , and an enthalpy formulation was used for the core region . the
   predicted values were in good agreement with the experimentally obtained
   temperature profiles . the model was used to examine the influence of a
   variety of different processing and product formulation conditions on heat
   transfer . 1998 , sage publications
DE frying; heat transfer; modeling

---

UT 2070
AR Munck L, 1998, CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST, V44, P31, DOI
   10.1016/S0169-7439(98)00074-4
TI Chemometrics in food science - A demonstration of the feasibility of a
   highly exploratory, inductive evaluation strategy of fundamental scientific
   significance
AU Munck L; Nørgaard L; Engelsen SB/1; Bro R; Andersson CA
TC 163
SO CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST
PY 1998
AB at the roots of science lies observation and data collection from the world
   as is and from which conclusions can be induced after classification . this
   is far from the present theory driven , deductive , normative stage of
   science which depends heavily on modeling discrete functional factors in
   laboratory experiments and suppresses the aspect of interaction . in spite
   of its successes , science today has great difficulty in adapting to the
   changes which technology has created to cope with registering and evaluating
   real data from the world , such as in food production chains . this paper
   demonstrates that it is possible and profitable with the help of new
   technology to reintroduce an explorative , inductive strategy to investigate
   the chemistry of a complex food process as is with a minimum of a priori
   assumptions . the food process investigated is a sugar plant and the tools
   necessary in this strategy include a multivariate screening method (
   fluorescence spectroscopy ) , an arsenal of chemometric models ( pca , pls ,
   principal variables ) , including multiway models ( parafac , tucker ) , and
   a computer . not only can chemical criteria and process parameters
   throughout the process be validly predicted by the screening method , but
   process irregularities as well as chemical species can also be detected and
   validated by multiway chemometric techniques . inspired by examples from the
   food area , the paper further discusses the nature of the exploration method
   in the selection of tools and data . the aim is to study complex processes
   as a whole in order to model interaction of the underlying latent functional
   factors which may later be defined more precisely by deductive methods .
   these methods in combination with an appropriate multivariate screening
   method allow for unique identification of objects a significant prerequisite
   for a viable , exploratory , inductive data strategy which is needed as a
   fundamental complement to prevalent normative research in order to obtain a
   science on the interdisciplinary level .
DE chemometrics; food science; multiway models
ID chemometric analysis; chemometrics; conference paper; fluorescence
   spectroscopy; food industry; mathematical analysis; mathematical model;
   nutritional science; priority journal; sugar industry

---

UT 2071
AR Zhang Z/2, 2024, CURR RESFOOD SCI, V8, DOI 10.1016/j.crfs.2024.100676
TI Rapid analysis technologies with chemometrics for food authenticity field: A
   review
AU Zhang Z/2; Li Y/5; Zhao S; Qie M; Bai L; Gao Z; Liang K; Zhao Y
TC 35
SO CURR RESFOOD SCI
PY 2024
AB in recent years , the problem of food adulteration has become increasingly
   rampant , seriously hindering the development of food production ,
   consumption , and management . the common analytical methods used to
   determine food authenticity present challenges , such as complicated
   analysis processes and time consuming procedures , necessitating the
   development of rapid , efficient analysis technology for food authentication
   . spectroscopic techniques , ambient ionization mass spectrometry ( aims ) ,
   electronic sensors , and dna based technology have gradually been applied
   for food authentication due to advantages such as rapid analysis and simple
   operation . this paper summarizes the current research on rapid food
   authenticity analysis technology from three perspectives , including breeds
   or species determination , quality fraud detection , and geographical origin
   identification , and introduces chemometrics method adapted to rapid
   analysis techniques . it aims to promote the development of rapid analysis
   technology in the food authenticity field
DE ambient ionization mass spectrometry; authenticity; dna-based technology;
   electronic sensors; spectroscopic
ID dna; ambient ionization mass spectrometry; chemometrics; discriminant
   analysis; dna determination; food; food analysis; food authenticity; food
   handling; food quality; geography; mass spectrometry; nonhuman; partial
   least squares regression; review; species identification; supervised machine
   learning; unsupervised machine learning

---

UT 2072
AR Gan H-H, 2014, FOOD CHEM, V146, P149, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2013.09.024
TI Atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation mass spectrometry analysis linked
   with chemometrics for food classification - A case study: Geographical
   provenance and cultivar classification of monovarietal clarified apple
   juices
AU Gan H-H; Soukoulis C; Fisk I
TC 53
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2014
AB in the present work , we have evaluated for first time the feasibility of
   apci ms volatile compound fingerprinting in conjunction with chemometrics (
   pls da ) as a new strategy for rapid and non destructive food classification
   . for this purpose 202 clarified monovarietal juices extracted from apples
   differing in their botanical and geographical origin were used for
   evaluation of the performance of apci ms as a classification tool . for an
   independent test set pls da analyzes of pre treated spectral data gave 100 %
   and 94.2 % correct classification rate for the classification by cultivar
   and geographical origin , respectively . moreover , pls da analysis of apci
   ms in conjunction with gc ms data revealed that masses within the spectral
   acpi ms data set were related with parent ions or fragments of alkyesters ,
   carbonyl compounds ( hexanal , trans 2-hexenal ) and alcohols ( 1-hexanol ,
   1-butanol , cis 3-hexenol ) and had significant discriminating power both in
   terms of cultivar and geographical origin . 2013 the authors . published by
   elsevier ltd
DE apci-ms; apple; authenticity; chemometric techniques; pls-da
ID beverages; chemistry techniques analytical; discriminant analysis;
   geography; malus; mass spectrometry; malus x domestica; mass spectrometry;
   apci-ms; apple; authenticity; chemometric techniques; pls-da; alcohol
   derivative; aldehyde; butanol; carbonyl derivative; carboxylic acid;
   flavoring agent; hexanal; hexanol; isovaleraldehyde; volatile agent; apci-
   ms; apple; authenticity; chemometric techniques; pls-da; apple; apple juice;
   article; atmospheric pressure; case study; chemometrics; classification;
   cultivar; discriminant analysis; food analysis; gas chromatography;
   geographical variation ( species ); mass spectrometry; nonhuman; partial
   least squares regression; principal component analysis; solid phase
   microextraction; fruit juices

---

UT 2073
AR Soóki M, 2024, AGRIS ON-LINE PAP ECON, V16, P91, DOI 10.7160/aol.2024.160108
TI Multivariate Analysis of Food Security and Its Driving Factors
AU Soóki M; Poláková Z; Palkovič J; Beňovičová K
TC 0
SO AGRIS ON-LINE PAP ECON
PY 2024
AB the main objective of the presented paper was the analysis of the current
   state of food security in the world , segmentation of 100 selected countries
   and determination of its main driving factors . the analysis used 27
   indicators covering 5 basic areas : agricultural production , poverty ,
   demography , economic development , and environmental indicators . the
   analysis was based on data from the fao and world bank for the most recent
   available period , which was year 2020 . the data dimension was reduced with
   the application of factor analysis , and the main driving factors of food
   sufficiency were determined . the result was 6 factors : technological
   development , economic development , agricultural production , environmental
   factor , and physical quality of life and environment . to group similar
   countries in terms of selected indicators , a cluster analysis was performed
   , whereby countries were grouped by similarity into three clusters . the 1st
   cluster consisted of the most economically developed countries , where only
   2.54 % of the population suffers from malnutrition . the countries in this
   cluster were characterized by high levels of economic development , high
   caloric intake of the population , and high , life expectancy . on the other
   hand , they recorded negative development in demographic indicators such as
   fertility and birth rates . the 2nd cluster included the poorest areas of
   the african continent , which were most endangered by direct food
   insufficiency ( 23.74 % of the population ) . in contrast to the first
   cluster , these countries were characterized by low levels of economic
   development , high prices , and low calorie intakes of the population , as
   well as low life expectancy , while on the other hand , these countries had
   high fertility and birth rates . the third largest cluster consisted of
   countries with a medium threat of food insufficiency , where 6.37 % of the
   population suffers from malnutrition . the countries in the third cluster
   excelled in terms of crop and livestock production volumes , but in contrast
   to this , they achieved lower levels of fat , protein , and calorie intake
   of population . ( 2024 ) , ( faculty of economics and management )
DE driving factors of food security; food security issues; multi-dimensional
   analysis
ID agricultural production; economic development; environmental factor; food
   security; multivariate analysis

---

UT 2074
AR Zaldarriaga Heredia J, 2023, CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR, V63, P8173, DOI
   10.1080/10408398.2022.2055527
TI An overview on multi-elemental profile integrated with chemometrics for food
   quality assessment: toward new challenges
AU Zaldarriaga Heredia J; Wagner M; Jofré FC; Savio M; Azcarate SM; Camiña JM
TC 20
SO CRIT REV FOOD SCI NUTR
PY 2023
AB food products , especially those with high value added , are commonly
   subjected to strict quality controls , which are of paramount importance ,
   especially for attesting to some peculiar features related , for instance ,
   to their geographical origin and / or the know how of their producers .
   however , the sophistication of fraudulent practices requires a continuous
   update of analytical platforms . different analytical techniques have become
   extremely appealing since the instrumental analysis tools evolution has
   substantially improved the capability to reveal and understand the
   complexity of food . in light of this , multi elemental composition has been
   successful implemented solving a plethora of food authentication and
   traceability issues . in the last decades , it has existed an ever
   increasing trend in analysis based on spectrometry analytical platforms in
   order to obtain a multi elemental profile that combined with chemometrics
   have been noteworthy analytical methodologies able to solve these problems .
   this review provides an overview of published reports in the last decade (
   from 2011 to 2021 ) on food authentication and quality control from their
   multi element composition in order to evaluate the state of the art of this
   field and to identify the main characteristics of applied analytical
   techniques and chemometric data treatments that have permit achieve accurate
   discrimination / classification models , highlighting the strengths and the
   weaknesses of these methodologies
DE absorption; atomic; authentication; emission; spectrometry
ID chemometrics; food; food quality; spectrum analysis; absorption
   spectroscopy; food products; quality control; spectrometry; technology
   transfer; atomic; chemometrices; continuous updates; elemental profile;
   emission; food authentications; food quality; geographical origins;
   instrumental analysis; quality assessment; analytic method; chemometrics;
   food quality; quality control; review; spectroscopy; food; food quality;
   spectroscopy; authentication

---

UT 2075
AR Maneysha RV, 2025, ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV, P63,
   DOI 10.1016/B978-0-443-26468-9.00001-1
TI Supervised learning techniques in food science: predictive modeling and
   classification
AU Maneysha RV; Niveadhitha S; Subhashini S; Tazeen H
TC 1
SO ARTIF INTELL FOOD SCI TRANSFORM FOOD BIOPROCESS DEV
PY 2025
AB artificial intelligence combined with machine learning ( ml ) plays a vital
   role in the food industry for the past few years . data analysis is an
   important factor that helps the food industries to identify and satisfy the
   customer needs with good precision . thus , analysis of large data finds a
   major application , and it can be done with advanced data mining techniques
   . once such advanced technique is supervised learning , which is separated
   into classification and regression . this machine learning category not only
   helps in data analysis but also plays a major role in food security ,
   optimization of supply chain , tracking of perishable foods , and even in
   managing the food quality and safety . the ml based technology helps predict
   the process kinetics of various unit operations incorporated in the food
   processing such as canning , encapsulation , extrusion , fermentation , and
   various other processes . the raw food categorization by infrared
   spectroscopy which is a future need of the food industry can be obtained
   with partial least square ( pls ) regression , and support vector machine (
   svm ) classification under supervised learning . another approach is the
   nuclear magnetic resonance ( nmr ) with supervised machine learning models
   that helps to analyze the adulterants present in food at various
   concentrations . so , it is a pragmatic technique that can be used to
   maintain the authenticity of food products such as honey , oils , spices ,
   and many others . these artificial intelligence based methods are energy
   efficient , reduce time for processing , and produce good quality end
   products with better accuracy
DE classification; data analysis; food quality; regression; supervised learning
ID data mining; data reduction; food industry; food processing; food safety;
   food security; food supply; infrared spectroscopy; learning algorithms;
   learning systems; nuclear magnetic resonance; regression analysis; support
   vector machines; customer need; data mining techniques; food industries;
   food quality; food science; large data; learning techniques; machine
   learning; predictive models; regression; classification ( of information )

---

UT 2076
AR Keithellakpam LB, 2025, FOODS, V14, DOI 10.3390/foods14223805
TI A Comprehensive Review on Minimally Destructive Quality and Safety
   Assessment of Agri-Food Products: Chemometrics-Coupled Mid-Infrared
   Spectroscopy
AU Keithellakpam LB; Danielski R; Singh CB; Jayas DS; Karunakaran C
TC 5
SO FOODS
PY 2025
AB ensuring the quality and safety of agricultural and food products is crucial
   for protecting consumer health , meeting market expectations , and complying
   with regulatory requirements . quality and safety parameters are commonly
   assessed using chemical and microbiological analyzes , which are time
   consuming , impractical , and involve the use of toxic solvents , often
   disrupting the material s original structure . an alternative technique ,
   infrared spectroscopy , including near infrared ( nir ) , mid infrared ( mir
   ) , and short wave infrared ( swir ) , has emerged as a rapid , powerful ,
   and minimally destructive technique for evaluating the quality and safety of
   food and agricultural products . this review focuses on discussing mir
   spectroscopy , particularly fourier transform infrared ( ftir ) techniques ,
   with emphasis on the attenuated total reflectance ( atr ) measurement mode (
   globar infrared light source is commonly used ) and on the use of
   synchrotron radiation ( sr ) as an alternative high brightness light source
   . both approaches enable the extraction of detailed spectral data related to
   molecular and functional attributes concerning quality and safety , thereby
   facilitating the assessment of crop disorders , food chemical composition ,
   microbial contamination ( e . g . , mycotoxins , bacteria ) , and the
   detection of food adulterants , among several other applications . in
   combination with advanced chemometric techniques , ftir spectroscopy ,
   whether employing atr as a measurement mode or sr as a high brightness light
   source , is a powerful analytical tool for classification based on
   attributes , variety , nutritional and geographical origins , with or
   without minimal sample preparation , no chemical use , and short analysis
   time . however , limitations exist regarding calibrations , validations ,
   and accessibility . the objective of this review is to address recent
   technological advancements and existing constraints of ftir conducted in atr
   mode and using sr as a light source ( not necessarily in combination ) . it
   defines potential pathways for the comprehensive integration of ftir and
   chemometrics for real time quality and safety monitoring systems into the
   global food supply chain
DE chemometrics; food quality; ftir; microbial contamination; nondestructive;
   safety

---

UT 2077
AR Roberts JJ, 2016, FOOD ANAL METHODS, V9, P3258, DOI
   10.1007/s12161-016-0574-7
TI An Overview on the Application of Chemometrics in Food Science and
   Technology—An Approach to Quantitative Data Analysis
AU Roberts JJ; Cozzolino D
TC 73
SO FOOD ANAL METHODS
PY 2016
AB during the last 30 years , food scientists and technologists all over the
   world are dealing with massive amounts of data derived from the use of
   different measuring devices ( e . g . instrumental and sensory data ) , the
   integration of different analytical techniques and processes during the
   analysis and production of foods . therefore , complementary disciplines and
   tools to the traditional ones used in food science such as statistics ,
   experimental design and chemometrics have become essential in modern
   sciences and are an integral component in the day to day analysis of foods
   and derived products . the aim of this paper is to introduce as well as
   provide with an overview of different concepts , methods , techniques and
   general steps used in the quantitative analysis of foods when chemometrics
   or multivariate analytical methods are applied
DE chemometrics; experimental design; food; optimization; quantitative analysis
ID chemical analysis; design of experiments; food products; product design;
   statistics; chemometrics; derived products; food science and technology;
   integral components; measuring device; multivariate analytical methods;
   optimizations; quantitative data; sensory analysis

---

UT 2078
AR Yavas CE, 2025, BIG DATA COGN COMPUT, V9, DOI 10.3390/bdcc9030055
TI Exploring Predictive Modeling for Food Quality Enhancement: A Case Study on
   Wine
AU Yavas CE; Kim J/1; Chen L/4; Kadlec C; Ji Y
TC 7
SO BIG DATA COGN COMPUT
PY 2025
AB what makes a wine exceptional enough to score a perfect 10 from experts ?
   this study explores a data driven approach to identify the ideal
   physicochemical composition for wines that could achieve this highest
   possible rating . using a dataset of 11 measurable attributes , including
   alcohol , sulfates , residual sugar , density , and citric acid , for wines
   rated up to a maximum quality score of 8 by expert tasters , we sought to
   predict compositions that might enhance wine quality beyond current
   observations . our methodology applies a second degree polynomial ridge
   regression model , optimized through an exhaustive evaluation of feature
   combinations . furthermore , we propose a specific chemical and physical
   composition of wine that our model predicts could achieve a quality score of
   10 from experts . while further validation with winemakers and industry
   experts is necessary , this study aims to contribute a practical tool for
   guiding quality exploration and advancing predictive modeling applications
   in food and beverage sciences
DE accuracy; human perception; linear regression; machine learning; polynomial
   ridge regression; rmse; wine quality prediction
ID breweries; prediction models; accuracy; human perception; machine learning;
   polynomial ridge regression; predictive models; quality prediction; ridge
   regression; rmse; wine quality; wine quality prediction; wine

---

UT 2079
AR Kharbach M, 2026, FOOD CHEM, V506, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2026.147854
TI Current advances in LC-MS/MS and GC-MS/MS coupled with chemometrics for
   integrated food analysis and quality control
AU Kharbach M; Mansouri MA; Taabouz M; Zhang T; Yu H/1
TC 2
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2026
AB the continuous evolution of food analysis is being pushed by the integration
   of cutting edge liquid and gas chromatography tandem mass spectrometry ( lc
   ms / ms and gc ms / ms ) , which have transcended the limitations of
   traditional analytical techniques through their exceptional sensitivity ,
   specificity , and throughput . this review presents a critical and forward
   looking overview of recent advancements in lc ms / ms and gc ms / ms
   technologies , emphasizing their pivotal roles in addressing contemporary
   challenges in food safety surveillance , fraud detection , nutritional
   profiling , and overall quality assurance . in parallel , the emergence of
   advanced chemometric strategies spanning multivariate statistics , machine
   learning , and artificial intelligence has redefined how complex datasets
   are processed , interpreted , and visualized , enabling more robust , high
   resolution insights into food composition and integrity . by synthesizing
   the latest developments in both instrumentation and data science , this
   review highlights the synergistic potential of analytical chemistry and
   chemometrics to set new standards in foodomics , traceability , and risk
   assessment . ultimately , these innovations contribute to greater
   transparency , regulatory compliance , and consumer trust in the global food
   supply chain
DE food analysis; food authenticity; gc-ms/ms; lc-ms/ms; machine learning
ID chemometrics; chromatography liquid; food analysis; gas chromatography-mass
   spectrometry; liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; quality control;
   tandem mass spectrometry; food chemistry; food safety; food supply; learning
   systems; machine learning; multivariant analysis; quality assurance; quality
   control; regulatory compliance; current; chemometrices; cutting edges; food
   analysis; food authenticity; food quality; gc/ms/ms; lc-ms-ms; lc-ms/ms;
   machine learning; artificial intelligence; chemometrics; food analysis; food
   composition; food safety monitoring; foodomics; fraud; human; liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrometry; machine learning; mass fragmentography;
   nonhuman; nutrient profiling; quality control; review; risk assessment;
   devices; liquid chromatography; liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry;
   mass fragmentography; procedures; quality control; tandem mass spectrometry;
   risk assessment

---

UT 2080
AR Ghasemi-Varnamkhasti M, 2012, EXPERT SYS APPL, V39, P4315, DOI
   10.1016/j.eswa.2011.09.101
TI Classification of non-alcoholic beer based on aftertaste sensory evaluation
   by chemometric tools
AU Ghasemi-Varnamkhasti M; Mohtasebi SS; Rodriguez-Mendez ML; Lozano J; Razavi
   SH; Ahmadi H; Apetrei C
TC 52
SO EXPERT SYS APPL
PY 2012
AB sensory evaluation is the application of knowledge and skills derived from
   several different scientific and technical disciplines , physiology ,
   chemistry , mathematics and statistics , human behavior , and knowledge
   about product preparation practices . this research was aimed to evaluate
   aftertaste sensory attributes of commercial non alcoholic beer brands ( p1 ,
   p2 , p3 , p4 , p5 , p6 , p7 ) by several chemometric tools . these
   attributes were bitter , sour , sweet , fruity , liquorice , artificial ,
   body , intensity and duration . the results showed that the data are in a
   good consistency . therefore , the brands were statistically classified in
   several categories . linear techniques as principal component analysis ( pca
   ) and linear discriminant analysis ( lda ) were performed over the data that
   revealed all types of beer are well separated except a partial overlapping
   between zones corresponding to p4 , p6 and p7 . in this research , for the
   confirmation of the groups observed in pca and in order to calculate the
   errors in calibration and in validation , pls da technique was used . based
   on the quantitative data of pls da , the classification accuracy values were
   ranked within 49-86 % . moreover , it was found that the classification
   accuracy of lda was much better than pca . it shows that this trained
   sensory panel can discriminate among the samples except an overlapping
   between two types of beer . also , two types of artificial networks were
   used : probabilistic neural networks ( pnn ) with radial basis functions (
   rbf ) and feedforward networks with back propagation ( bp ) learning method
   . the highest classification success rate ( correct predicted number over
   total number of measurements ) of about 97 % was obtained for rbf followed
   by 94 % for bp . the results obtained in this study could be used as a
   reference for electronic nose and electronic tongue in beer quality control
DE artificial neural network; chemometrics food quality; non-alcoholic beer;
   sensory panel
ID artificial organs; backpropagation; beer; behavioral research; discriminant
   analysis; electronic tongues; neural networks; principal component analysis;
   radial basis function networks; artificial networks; artificial neural
   network; chemometric tools; chemometrics; classification accuracy;
   electronic nose; feedforward network; human behaviors; learning methods;
   linear discriminant analysis; linear techniques; probabilistic neural
   networks; quantitative data; radial basis functions; sensory attributes;
   sensory evaluation; sensory panels; quality control

---

UT 2081
AR Rodionova OY/1, 2020, FOOD CHEM, V317, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2020.126448
TI Chemometric tools for food fraud detection: The role of target class in non-
   targeted analysis
AU Rodionova OY/1; Pomerantsev AL
TC 72
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2020
AB the chemometric issues related to the application of non targeted analysis
   for the detection of food frauds were analyzed employing discriminant
   analysis and a one class classifier . the similarities and differences
   between the two methods were investigated . the results of classification
   are characterized by a set of indices called figures of merit . they
   comprehensively characterized the quality and reliability of classification
   . the principle is illustrated using an actual example of oregano herbs
   adulteration . the informative region 90004000 cm1 of near infrared
   spectroscopy is used as analytical means . the results of the application of
   each method for oregano data collection are presented . it is shown that the
   discriminant method is only partially appropriate for solving the
   authentication problem . one class classifier is a powerful and devoted for
   non targeted analysis . the step by step analysis introduced in the paper
   can also be successfully utilized in apply for revealing of forgeries of
   various food products
DE dd-simca; food authentication; multi-class pls-da; nir; non-targeted
   analysis; oregano herbs
ID discriminant analysis; food analysis; food contamination; fraud; least
   squares analysis; origanum; reproducibility of results; sensitivity and
   specificity; spectroscopy near infrared; authentication; discriminant
   analysis; food products; near infrared spectroscopy; dd-simca; food
   authentications; multi-class pls-da; non-targeted; oregano herbs; article;
   classifier; discriminant analysis; forgery; fraud; intermethod comparison;
   near infrared spectroscopy; nonhuman; oregano; reliability; chemistry; food
   analysis; food contamination; least square analysis; origanum; procedures;
   reproducibility; sensitivity and specificity; infrared devices

---

UT 2082
AR Joyce JR, 2010, SCI COMPUT, V27, P12
TI The impact of chemometrics on food safety
AU Joyce JR
TC 0
SO SCI COMPUT
PY 2010
AB the impact of chemometrics on food safety is discussed . chemometrics is the
   science of relating measurements made on a chemical system or process to the
   state of the system through application of mathematical or statistical
   methods . by using a variety of mathematical and statistical techniques ,
   such as principal component analysis ( pca ) , multivariate discriminant
   analysis , and regression / classification trees , it can identify
   relationships between samples and conditions . chemometrics is indeed used
   to assist in the identification and quantization of the biological agents as
   well .
ID discriminant analysis; food safety; mathematical techniques; multivariant
   analysis; trees ( mathematics ); biological agents; chemical systems;
   chemometrics; multivariate discriminant analysis; statistical techniques;
   principal component analysis

---

UT 2083
AR Saenz Santillano AS, 2026, PROCESS, V14, DOI 10.3390/pr14030418
TI Predictive Modeling of Food Extrusion Using Hemp Residues: A Machine
   Learning Approach for Sustainable Ruminant Nutrition
AU Saenz Santillano AS; Reyes Jáquez D; Guerrero Rivera R; Delgado E; Medrano
   Roldan H; Medina JO
TC 1
SO PROCESS
PY 2026
AB predictive modeling of extrusion processes through machine learning ( ml )
   offers significant improvements over classical response surface methodology
   ( rsm ) when addressing nonlinear and multivariable systems . this study
   evaluated hemp residues ( cannabis sativa ) as a non conventional ingredient
   in ruminant diets and compared the performance of polynomial regression
   models against several ml algorithms , including artificial neural networks
   ( anns ) , random forest ( rf ) , k nearest neighbors ( knn ) , and xgboost
   . three experimental datasets from previous extrusion studies were
   concatenated with new laboratory experiments , creating a unified database
   in excel . input variables included extrusion parameters ( temperature ,
   screw speed , and moisture ) and formulation components , while output
   variables comprised expansion index , bd , penetration force , water
   absorption index and water solubility index . data preprocessing involved
   robust z score detection of outliers ( mad criterion ) with intra group
   winsorization , followed by normalization to a [ 1 , +1 ] range .
   hyperparameter optimization of ann models was performed with optuna , and
   all algorithms were evaluated through 5-fold cross validation and
   independent external validation sets . results demonstrated that ml models
   consistently outperformed quadratic regression , with anns achieving r2 >
   0.80 for bd and water solubility index , and rf excelling in predicting
   solubility . these findings establish machine learning as a robust
   predictive framework for extrusion processes and highlight hemp residues as
   a sustainable feed ingredient with potential to improve ruminant nutrition
   and reduce environmental impacts
DE agro-industrial by-products; artificial neural networks; cannabis sativa;
   extrusion processing; machine learning; random forest; ruminant feed;
   sustainable feed formulation
ID chemical contamination; extrusion; hemp; learning systems; machine learning;
   multivariable systems; nearest neighbor search; nutrition; polynomial
   regression; random forests; agro-industrial by-product; cannabis sativa;
   extrusion processing; industrial by-products; machine learning; neural
   networks; predictive models; random forests; ruminant feeds; sustainable
   feed formulation; water absorption

---

UT 2084
AR Farag MA, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11182867
TI UV Fingerprinting Approaches for Quality Control Analyses of Food and
   Functional Food Coupled to Chemometrics: A Comprehensive Analysis of Novel
   Trends and Applications
AU Farag MA; Sheashea M; Zhao C; Maamoun AA
TC 46
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB ( 1 ) background : ultraviolet visible ( uv vis ) spectroscopy is a common
   analytical tool to detect chromophore in compounds by monitoring absorbance
   spectral wavelengths . further , it could provide spectral information about
   complex conjugated systems in mixtures aided by chemometric tools to
   visualize large uv vis datasets as typical in food samples . this review
   provides novel insight on uv vis applications in the last 20 years , as an
   advanced analytical tool in the quality control of food and dietary
   supplements , as well as several other applications , including
   chemotaxonomy , authentication , fingerprinting , and stability studies . (
   2 ) conclusions : a critical assessment of the value of uv application and
   its novel trends in the quality control ( qc ) of nutraceuticals reveals the
   advantages and limitations , focusing on areas where future advancements are
   in need . although simple , uv and its novel trends present potential
   analytical tools with an acceptable error for qc applications from a non
   targeted perspective compared to other expensive spectral tools
DE chemometrics; food analysis; nutraceuticals; quality control; uv
   spectroscopy

---

UT 2085
AR Foschi M, 2022, MICROCHEM J, V183, DOI 10.1016/j.microc.2022.108021
TI Future foods protection: Supervised chemometric approaches for the
   determination of adulterated insects’ flours for human consumption by means
   of ATR-FTIR spectroscopy
AU Foschi M; D'Addario A; Antonio D'Archivio A; Biancolillo A
TC 18
SO MICROCHEM J
PY 2022
AB in recent years , the possibility of reintroducing edible insects in the
   human diet in the areas where this habit had fallen in disuse has been
   revaluated . the reasons lie in the noticeable nutritional properties of
   some edible insects ( generally rich in protein , vitamins , mineral
   elements , polyphenols and fatty acids ) and their sustainable breeding
   which requires a moderate amount of water , and no peculiar exigencies .
   consequently , insect based snacks , insect flours , and derived products
   are currently spreading on the market all over the world . although ' future
   foods ' have been a hot and debated topic in the last years , research has
   not kept pace with the times , and , in the literature , only a few studies
   on the characterization and the authentication of edible insects ( and their
   derived products ) have been published . in the light of this , the present
   work aims at developing a non destructive infrared spectroscopy ( ir )
   -based tool for detecting adulterations in insects flours for human
   consumption . mixtures of cricket and buffalo worm flours , prepared to
   mimic adulterated samples , together with pure flours of the same insects ,
   have been analyzed by ft ir spectroscopy . eventually , classification tools
   for discriminating between pure and adulterated samples , i . e . ,
   sequential preprocessing through orthogonalization discriminant analysis (
   sport da ) and soft independent modeling of class analogy ( simca ) , have
   been employed . both discriminant and class modelling approaches
   demonstrated to be suitable for the purpose . the highest correct
   classification rate on cricket flour was achieved by means of sport da ,
   which correctly predicted 100 % of test samples . whereas , the most
   accurate predictions on the buffalo worm flour data set were obtained using
   simca , which allowed the erroneous classification of only three ( over
   thirty ) test objects
DE adulteration; atr-ftir; classification; edible insects; insects flour; simca

---

UT 2086
AR Lee M, 2025, ELECTRON MARK, V35, DOI 10.1007/s12525-025-00824-5
TI AI-powered predictive modeling for food-service crowdfunding success: An
   integrated approach with business intelligence and supervised machine
   learning for smart business ecosystem
AU Lee M; Koh Y; Hernandez A; Um T
TC 1
SO ELECTRON MARK
PY 2025
AB this study investigates the potential of machine learning ( ml ) for
   predicting food service crowdfunding success , addressing a gap in online
   crowdfunding platform and smart business ecosystem . drawing on costless
   signaling theory and insights from crowdfunding literature , five
   reputational and eleven non reputational attributes were identified as key
   determinants . data from 22,923 kickstarter projects was analyzed using
   seven supervised ml algorithms : bootstrap aggregating ensembles ,
   classification tree , logistic regression , random forest , support vector
   machine , xgboost , and deep learning . the results indicate that deep
   learning is the most accurate model for predicting crowdfunding success .
   notably , xgboost also demonstrated strong predictive power , offering a
   viable alternative to deep learning . this research pioneers the application
   of supervised ml in predicting food service crowdfunding success , expanding
   the scope of ml applications within hospitality studies and introducing
   novel predictors . the findings provide valuable insights for entrepreneurs
   seeking funding through crowdfunding platforms and contribute to the
   understanding of success factors in this domain . the author ( s ) , under
   exclusive license to institute of applied informatics at university of
   leipzig 2025 .
DE crowdfunding platform; food service crowdfunding success; predictive
   modeling; signaling theory; smart business ecosystem; supervised machine
   learning

---

UT 2087
AR Öz M, 2026, J FOOD SCI, V91, DOI 10.1111/1750-3841.71163
TI Mimicking the Ocean: Critical Challenges in Scaffold Design and Tissue
   Texturization for Cell-Cultured Seafood
AU Öz M; Üstüner E
TC 0
SO J FOOD SCI
PY 2026
AB cellular aquaculture offers a sustainable solution to global seafood demand
   , yet the production of high value , whole cut filets is hindered by the '
   texture gap , ' the inability to replicate the complex , anisotropic
   architecture of native fish muscle and its collagenous myosepta . this
   critical review addresses this challenge by evaluating the necessary
   paradigm shift from reductionist mammalian centric tissue engineering to
   marine biomimetic scaffolding strategies . we systematically analyze the
   efficacy of marine derived biomaterials , such as cold water fish skin
   collagen , sponge chitin , and algal polysaccharides , demonstrating their
   superior capacity to meet the distinct metabolic and thermal requirements of
   piscine cells . our analysis reveals that advanced fabrication technologies
   , including electrospinning , cryo templating , and 3d bioprinting ,
   successfully achieve the micro scale alignment necessary for myotome mimicry
   , though macroscopic scalability remains a current industrial bottleneck .
   furthermore , we establish that structural fidelity must be coupled with
   sensoric integration . incorporating marine protein hydrolysates and lipid
   co cultures significantly enhances umami intensity and authentic mouthfeel ,
   as validated by electronic sensory analytics . to translate these
   advancements into commercial viability , the cellular seafood industry must
   transition from chemical crosslinking to food grade enzymatic alternatives .
   by integrating circular bioeconomy principles specifically , valorizing
   seafood processing waste to secure affordable scaffold materials this review
   provides a strategic roadmap for scaling structurally accurate ,
   sensorically authentic , and economically competitive cell cultured seafood
   products . 2026 the author ( s ) . journal of food science published by
   wiley periodicals llc on behalf of institute of food technologists .
DE cell-cultured seafood; circular bioeconomy; marine biomaterials; myoseptum
   mimicry; scaffold engineering; texture analysis
ID biomaterial; chitin; collagen sponge; lipid; polysaccharide; protein
   hydrolysate; water; aquaculture; coculture; cold; cross linking;
   electrospinning; human; mouthfeel; myotome; nonhuman; pharmaceutics; review;
   sea food; texture analysis; three dimensional bioprinting; tissue
   engineering; umami

---

UT 2088
AR Mueed A, 2026, TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, V172, DOI 10.1016/j.tifs.2026.105713
TI Protein-lipid-carbohydrate interactions in flavor retention: Emerging
   insight from nonthermal technologies to advanced analytics
AU Mueed A; Ahmad A/3; Ghazali MH; Zhang M/1; Butt AA; Saleem F; You L
TC 0
SO TRENDS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2026
AB backgorund : flavor retention in food is governed by complex macromolecular
   interactions among proteins , lipids , and carbohydrates . although
   traditional thermal processing often degrades volatile profiles , nonthermal
   technologies are emerging as sustainable alternatives that better preserve
   flavor integrity . scope and approach : this review integrates mechanistic
   insights into flavor matrix interactions with advances in nonthermal
   processing ( high pressure processing , pulsed electric fields , cold plasma
   , ultrasound ) and high resolution analytics ( gc ms , gc gc tof ms , nmr ,
   sers , and machine learning assisted flavoromics ) . special emphasis is
   placed on molecular binding behaviors , structural modifications induced by
   processing , and predictive modeling of flavor release , and the role of
   these innovations in advancing sustainable food preservation . key findings
   and conclusions : nonthermal technologies significantly reduce the thermal
   degradation of volatiles while modifying protein conformation and lipid
   oxidation pathways , thereby enhancing flavor stability and clean label
   appeal . recent studies demonstrate that controlled denaturation of proteins
   ( e . g . , -lactoglobulin , soy isolates ) increases hydrophobic binding
   sites , improving retention of key aroma compounds . encapsulation within
   protein polysaccharide complexes further enables targeted release in plant
   based and dairy matrices . furthermore , the adoption of these nonthermal
   methods aligns with sustainability goals by reducing energy consumption and
   minimizing waste compared to conventional thermal operations . machine
   learning models now allow accurate prediction of sensory outcomes from
   chemical data , advancing toward precision flavor design . further efforts
   must bridge molecular insights with scalable green processing to meet
   consumer demand for natural , flavorful , and sustainable foods
DE clean-label foods; encapsulation systems; flavor stability; green
   processing; predictive flavoromics; sensory analytics
ID behavioral research; binding energy; flavor compounds; hydrophobicity;
   lipids; machine learning; macromolecules; predictive analytics; proteins;
   thermal processing ( foods ); clean-label food; encapsulation systems;
   flavor stabilities; flavor retentions; green processing; matrix; non-thermal
   technology; predictive flavoromic; sensory analytic; thermal; binding sites

---

UT 2089
AR Gorzycka-Sikora A, 2023, PLOS, V18, DOI 10.1371/journal.pone.0283627
TI Multivariate analysis of food consumption profiles in crisis settings
AU Gorzycka-Sikora A; Mock N; Lacey M
TC 2
SO PLOS
PY 2023
AB preventing malnutrition is one of the primary objectives of many
   humanitarian agencies , and household surveys are regularly employed to
   monitor food insecurity caused by political , economic , or environmental
   crises . consumption frequencies for standard food groups are often
   collected to characterize the depth of food insecurity in a community and
   measure the impact of food assistance programs , producing a vector of
   bounded , correlated counts for each household . while aggregate indicators
   are typically used to summarize these results with a single statistic , they
   can be difficult to interpret and provide insufficient detail to judge the
   effectiveness of assistance programs . to address these limitations , we
   have developed a multivariate modeling framework for consumption frequency
   data . we introduce methods to update baseline models for the analysis of
   the smaller and more variable surveys typically collected in crisis settings
   , and we present an application of our approach to national consumption data
   collected in yemen in 2014 and 2016 by the world food program . the approach
   provides more nuanced and interpretable information about consumption
   changes in response to shocks and the effectiveness of humanitarian
   assistance . 2023 gorzycka sikora et al .
ID food assistance; food supply; humans; malnutrition; multivariate analysis;
   relief work; article; food intake; human; world food program; yemen;
   catering service; food assistance; malnutrition; multivariate analysis;
   relief work

---

UT 2090
AR de Araújo Gomes A, 2025, FOOD CHEM, V486, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2025.144531
TI Digital image-based chemometrics for food analysis: a practical tutorial and
   roadmap
AU de Araújo Gomes A; Diniz PHGD; de Sousa Fernandes DD; Ríos-Reina R; Azcarate
   SM; Špánik I
TC 7
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2025
AB digital images have become a powerful tool for developing analytical methods
   in food quality control . unlike conventional analytical signals , images
   can be processed to extract relevant chemical information , with chemometric
   techniques enhancing their utility . this review synthesizes applications of
   digital imaging in food analysis , providing a roadmap from univariate
   methods to multivariate classification / calibration approaches ,
   illustrated through three case studies demonstrating their potential for
   food safety and quality . however , the field faces critical challenges ,
   particularly the lack of methodological standardization , as evidenced by
   diverse applications in literature . addressing this gap is essential to
   ensure reliability and reproducibility . furthermore , the review highlights
   recent advances , such as hybrid color descriptors , chromaticity maps ,
   deep learning architectures , and time resolved rgb imaging , that improve
   the robustness and applicability of these techniques in food science
DE authentication; chemometrics; classification; digital images; food; fraud
ID chemometrics; food analysis; image processing computer-assisted; color image
   processing; computer control; damage detection; discriminant analysis; image
   coding; image enhancement; photointerpretation; statistical process control;
   analytical method; analytical signals; chemometrices; digital image; food
   analysis; food quality controls; fraud; image-based; roadmap; signal images;
   analytic method; article; chemometrics; digital imaging; feature extraction;
   food analysis; food color; food quality; food safety; geography; human;
   multivariate analysis; reliability; reproducibility; univariate analysis;
   wine; wood; devices; image processing; procedures; taxonomies

---

UT 2091
AR Ralinirina RE, 2025, COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI, V2391 CCIS, P30, DOI
   10.1007/978-3-031-84093-7_3
TI Unveiling the Potential of Explainable Artificial Intelligence in Predictive
   Modeling, Exploring Food Security and Nutrition in Madagascar
AU Ralinirina RE; Ralaivao JC; Ralaivao NM; Ratovondrahona AJ; Mahatody T
TC 0
SO COMMUN COMPUT INFO SCI
PY 2025
AB this study leverages machine learning ( ml ) and explainable artificial
   intelligence ( xai ) to predict complex phenomena , specifically focusing on
   forecasting food security and nutritional status in madagascar up to 2030 .
   by combining support vector machines ( svm ) with shapley additive
   explanations ( shap ) , we aim to provide both accurate predictions and
   transparent , interpretable insights into the decision making process . the
   predictive targets include food insecurity , underweight , chronic
   malnutrition , and acute malnutrition , addressing critical issues related
   to public health and nutrition . the robustness of svm in handling high
   dimensional data , coupled with shap s capability to explain individual
   predictions , ensures that our model not only delivers reliable forecasts
   but also offers clarity on the importance of each feature . the methodology
   involves collecting diverse datasets from reputable sources , performing
   exploratory data analysis , and implementing svm for predictive modeling .
   shap is then utilized to enhance model interpretability by providing
   detailed explanations of feature contributions . our contributions include
   methodological advancements in integrating xai with ml , development of
   transparent predictive models for decision makers , and practical
   applications to real world challenges in madagascar . this research aims to
   support the sustainable development goals by offering actionable insights
   for improving food security and nutrition , while also advancing global
   understanding of complex predictive phenomena
DE data science; explainable artificial intelligence; food security and
   nutrition; machine learning; predictive modeling; sustainable development
   goals
ID accurate prediction; decision making process; explainable artificial
   intelligence; food nutrition; food security; machine learning; madagascar;
   predictive models; shapley; support vectors machine; sustainable development
   goals

---

UT 2092
AR Kovačević S, 2019, FOOD ADDIT CONTAM CHEM ANAL CONTROL EXPO RISK ASSESS,
   V36, P1068, DOI 10.1080/19440049.2019.1606455
TI Toward identification of the risk group of food products: Chemometric
   assessment of heavy metals content in confectionery products
AU Kovačević S; Lončarević I; Pajin B; Fišteš A; Vasiljević I; Lazović M;
   Mrkajić D; Karadžić Banjac M; Podunavac-Kuzmanović S
TC 8
SO FOOD ADDIT CONTAM CHEM ANAL CONTROL EXPO RISK ASSESS
PY 2019
AB the main raw material for cookies production is wheat flour ( white or
   wholemeal / integral ) as a nutritionally highly valuable component . in
   addition to the benefits it brings , this raw material is also a potential
   source of contamination with residues of heavy metals originating from soil
   and plant protection agents . therefore , it is necessary to analyze their
   concentrations in both wheat flour and final products , since the wheat
   flour is often present in cookies and related confectionery products in a
   proportion > 60 or 70 % . the aim of this paper was to determine the content
   of heavy metals , including highly toxic ones ( as , cd , hg and pb ) and
   essential metals with potential toxic effects ( fe , cu , cr , co , mn , ni
   , zn ) in cookies , waffles and crackers available in local markets in the
   autonomous province of vojvodina , republic of serbia . the present study is
   focused on chemometric estimation of the risk group of confectionery
   products containing wheat flour in an easy and efficient way . hierarchical
   cluster analysis , principal component analysis , linear discriminant
   analysis and the sum of ranking differences analysis were applied for this
   purpose as chemometric tools with substantially different theoretical bases
   . the obtained results indicated that there is a specific group of cookies
   with a relatively high content of heavy metals . the group of crackers
   contained lower concentrations of heavy metals than the other groups of
   studied products . the results of the sum of ranking differences analysis
   indicate that there is no strict separation between the samples regarding
   the ratio among heavy metals contents
DE chemometrics; classification analysis; confectionery products; food quality
   control; heavy metals; icp-aes; risk assessment
ID environmental monitoring; flour; food contamination; metals heavy; atomic
   emission spectroscopy; chemical contamination; cluster analysis;
   discriminant analysis; heavy metals; hierarchical systems; principal
   component analysis; quality control; risk assessment; risk perception; soil
   pollution; chromium; cobalt; copper; cuprous ion; heavy metal; iron;
   manganese; mercury; nickel; nitric acid; zinc; heavy metal; chemometrics;
   classification analysis; confectionery products; food quality controls; icp-
   aes; article; biscuit; chemometric analysis; cookie; food contamination;
   market; principal component analysis; priority journal; risk assessment;
   serbia; wheat flour; analysis; environmental monitoring; flour; food
   contamination; metal analysis

---

UT 2093
AR Damiani P, 1983, J OIL CHEM SOC, V60, P539, DOI 10.1007/BF02679782
TI Chemometrics in food research: Relationships between triglyceride groups and
   fatty acid composition in olive oil
AU Damiani P; Burini G; Daddi P
TC 3
SO J OIL CHEM SOC
PY 1983
AB the values ( mol % ) of the triglyceride gnu groups , each containing all
   the molecular species with the same carbon numer and unsaturation , are
   different for various oils . in this paper , their use for analytical
   purposes is therefore hypothesized . to this end , the values ( mol % ) of
   gnu groups with respective means , standard deviations and coefficients of
   variation were first of all established using the l , 3-random 2-random
   distribution hypothesis on 50 olive oil samples . with these values , along
   with the relative data of the fatty acid composition , a computer study was
   carried out to obtain some regression models of use for estimating the gnu
   values ( mol % ) of other olive oil samples . the evaluation of the
   regression models procedure ( rmp ) was carried out comparing the values
   obtained by such a method for 6 other commercial olive oils with those
   experimentally determined by ag+-tlc coupled with direct triglyceride glc
   analysis . moreover , these models were tested with the data of fatty acid
   composition of 4 different seed oils , providing often negative gnu values ,
   always different , however , from those of olive oil . 1983 american oil
   chemists society .
ID chemical analysiscomputer applications; fatty acids; food productsresearch;
   mathematical models; organic compoundschemistry; triglyceride groups;
   vegetable oils

---

UT 2094
AR van der Veer G, 2013, MATH STAT METHODS FOOD SCI TECHNOL, P449, DOI
   10.1002/9781118434635.ch23
TI An integral approach to validation of analytical fingerprinting methods in
   combination with chemometric modelling for food quality assurance
AU van der Veer G; van Ruth SM; Hageman JA
TC 2
SO MATH STAT METHODS FOOD SCI TECHNOL
PY 2013
AB analytical fingerprinting in combination with chemometric modeling provides
   a powerful approach in the framework of food quality assurance . this
   recently emerging approach allows verifying claims regarding a whole range
   of food quality characteristics that were previously difficult or impossible
   to determine . these include claims regarding the nutritional composition ,
   product typicality and method of production as well as the geographical
   origin of food . as such , the fingerprinting approach can for example be
   used to verify claims of fish being from a wild origin , or of eggs being
   organic . since the fingerprinting approach differs from the classical
   analytical approach for food quality assurance , the existing protocols for
   validation of classical analytical methods are not directly applicable . to
   further standardize and harmonize the fingerprinting approach on an
   international level , an extension to existing validation protocols is
   required . this chapter provides a first step toward a further
   standardization by providing a tentative strategy for integral validation of
   the fingerprinting approach . 2014 by john wiley and sons , ltd
DE bootstrapping; classification model; cross validation; decision limit ( cc
   ); ec directive 2002/657/ec iso 17025; external validation; method
   validation; performance characteristics; repeatability; reproducibility;
   ruggedness stability; selectivity detection limit ( cc ); sensitivity;
   specificity
ID food technology; 2002/657/ec; bootstrapping; classification models; cross
   validation; decision limit; detection limits; external validation; method
   validations; performance characteristics; repeatability; reproducibilities;
   sensitivity; specificity; quality assurance

---

UT 2095
AR Truong VK/1, 2019, FOODS, V8, DOI 10.3390/foods8050164
TI From academia to reality check: A theoretical framework on the use of
   chemometric in food sciences
AU Truong VK/1; Dupont M; Elbourne A; Gangadoo S; Pathirannahalage PR;
   Cheeseman S; Chapman J/1; Cozzolino D/1
TC 42
SO FOODS
PY 2019
AB there is no doubt that the current knowledge in chemistry , biochemistry ,
   biology , and mathematics have led to advances in our understanding about
   food and food systems . however , the so called reductionist approach has
   dominated food research , hindering new developments and innovation in the
   field . in the last three decades , food science has moved into the digital
   and technological era , inducing several challenges resulting from the use
   of modern instrumental techniques , computing and algorithms incorporated to
   the exploration , mining , and description of data derived from this
   complexity . in this environment , food scientists need to be mindful of the
   issues ( advantages and disadvantages ) involved in the routine applications
   of chemometrics . the objective of this opinion paper is to give an overview
   of the key issues associated with the implementation of chemometrics in food
   research and development . please note that specifics about the different
   methodologies and techniques are beyond the scope of this review
DE analysis; chemometrics; food; quality

---

UT 2096
AR Stefan T, 2018, INT CONF SIMUL MODEL FOOD BIO-IND FOODSIM, P210
TI Creating, refining and validating a model describing spatiotemporal dynamics
   in cheese during ripening
AU Stefan T
TC 0
SO INT CONF SIMUL MODEL FOOD BIO-IND FOODSIM
PY 2018
AB in a project aimed at demonstrating the feasibility of a novel method of
   cheese production , we created a spatiotemporal model that tracks changes in
   concentrations of microorganisms and their metabolites during cheese
   ripening . the model was built using a multiphysics software that includes
   an interfaces for handling cfd ( computational fluid dynamics ) in porous
   media . the method used creating this model could be readily applied to
   other food products that are solid or heterogeneous , overcoming the
   restricted use of traditional , well mixed approaches in predictive
   microbiology . we further demonstrate how experimental results can be
   obtained to refine and validate this model , and how the model can be used
   to optimize the injection strategy of a bacterial suspension . 2018 eurosis
   eti .
DE model validation; optimization; reaction-diffusion equations; spatio-
   temporal predictive modeling in food
ID food products; linear equations; modal analysis; porous materials; cfd (
   computational fluid dynamics ); model validation; optimizations; predictive
   microbiology; predictive modeling; reaction-diffusion equations; spatio-
   temporal dynamics; spatio-temporal models; computational fluid dynamics

---

UT 2097
AR Amina M, 2009, IEEE/ACS INT CONF COMPUT SYST APPL AICCSA, P821, DOI
   10.1109/AICCSA.2009.5069423
TI Predictive modeling in food mycology using adaptive neuro-fuzzy systems
AU Amina M; Kodogiannis V; Tarczynski A
TC 0
SO IEEE/ACS INT CONF COMPUT SYST APPL AICCSA
PY 2009
AB fungal growth leads to spoilage of food and animal feeds and to formation of
   mycotoxins and potentially allergenic spores . there is a growing interest
   in predictive modeling microbial growth as an alternative to time consuming
   traditional , microbiological enumeration techniques . several statistical
   models have been accounted to describe the growth of different micro
   organisms . however neural networks , as highly nonlinear approximator
   scheme , have the potential of modeling some complex , phenomena better than
   the others . the application of adaptive neuro fuzzy systems in predictive
   microbiology is presented in this paper . this technique is used to build up
   a model of the joint effect of wateractivity , ph level and temperature to
   predict the maximum specific growth rate of the ascomycetous fungus monascus
   ruber . the proposed scheme is compared against standard neural network
   approaches . neuro fuzzy systems offer an alternative and powerful technique
   to model microbial kinetic parameters and could thus become an efficient
   tool in predictive mycology
DE fuzzy neural networks; modeling; parameter/structure learning; rule
   optimization
ID computer applications; fungi; fuzzy systems; microorganisms; ph effects;
   adaptive neuro-fuzzy system; animal feed; approximators; enumeration
   techniques; fungal growth; highly nonlinear; joint effect; maximum specific
   growth rates; microbial growth; microbial kinetics; modeling; monascus;
   neuro-fuzzy system; parameter/structure learning; ph levels; predictive
   microbiology; predictive modeling; predictive mycology; rule optimization;
   standard neural; statistical models; fuzzy neural networks

---

UT 2098
AR Pennells J, 2025, FOOD ENG REV, V17, P465, DOI 10.1007/s12393-025-09413-w
TI Mapping the AI Landscape in Food Science and Engineering: A Bibliometric
   Analysis Enhanced with Interactive Digital Tools and Company Case Studies
AU Pennells J; Watkins P; Bowler AL; Watson NJ; Knoerzer K
TC 8
SO FOOD ENG REV
PY 2025
AB the proliferation of research on artificial intelligence ( ai ) in food
   science and engineering has made it increasingly difficult to synthesize
   relevant insights effectively . although ai adoption in the food industry
   has grown , it lags behind sectors like finance and healthcare due to the
   complexity of food systems , including high process variability , risk
   aversion toward novel technologies , and constrained investment appetite .
   historically , computational techniques and ai adjacent technologies like
   expert systems and empirical modeling have supported food research and
   development for decades . more recently , ai applications have broadened to
   include process control , food safety , ingredient and product quality ,
   sensory evaluation , traceability , and supply chain management . in
   response to the rapid increase in ai related food science publications
   particularly since 2019 this review introduces tools for dynamically
   synthesizing and exploring this evolving knowledge base . we present an
   interactive dashboard that integrates a curated dataset of food ai review
   articles with advanced bibliometric analyzes , enabling user driven
   exploration of research trends and thematic relationships . additionally ,
   we demonstrate the use of customized large language model ( llm ) tools for
   targeted literature interrogation , enhancing accessibility for researchers
   and industry stakeholders . complementing this academic synthesis , we
   profile selected industry case studies where ai plays a central role in
   ingredient discovery , product development , intelligent sorting , and
   sensory analytics . by combining interactive research tools with real world
   case studies , this review offers a comprehensive snapshot of food ai and
   begins to bridge the gap between academic research and industry
   implementation , providing a valuable resource for those seeking both domain
   specific knowledge and actionable insights . crown 2025 .
DE artificial intelligence; bibliometric analysis; case-studies; food;
   interactive dashboard; large language models
ID food industry; food products; food safety; industrial research; investments;
   knowledge based systems; product development; sensory analysis;
   bibliometrics analysis; case-studies; company case; digital tools; food
   engineering; food science; interactive dashboard; language model; large
   language model; science and engineering; quality control

---

UT 2099
AR Bindon JR, 1986, ECOL FOOD NUTR, V18, P331, DOI
   10.1080/03670244.1986.9990937
TI Dietary patterns of children in american samoa: Multivariate analysis of
   food groups and household associations
AU Bindon JR
TC 3
SO ECOL FOOD NUTR
PY 1986
AB this report presents the findings of a dietary survey among 63 children aged
   five to seven years , on the island of tutuila , american samoa . twenty
   four hour recall interviews were conducted with the children and household
   food preparers to estimate kinds and frequencies of foods consumed . the
   foods were aggregated into 19 groups , and a principal components analysis
   was performed to determine patterning among the groups . four factors ,
   acounting for two thirds of the variability in frequency of food group usage
   , are reported on . the first two factors focused on introduced foods that
   are primarily purchased in the markets : breakfasts of milk , eggs and
   cereal or bread and butter . lunches and dinners with sandwiches , chicken
   and non traditional vegetables , as well as snacks ( cookies , candy , sodas
   , chips and similar foods ) . the next two factors focused on mostly
   traditional samoan foods that have been combined in prestige meals for
   centuries ( meat , fish , taro , breadfruit and bananas ) . analyzes of
   covariance on the diet factor scores indicated that per capita income was
   not associated with any of the dietary factors , but maintenance of a
   plantation was related to high scores on the two traditional food factors .
   on the basis of previous dietary work on samoan adults , it is suggested
   that , since gardening is associated with higher frequency of use of
   traditional foods , it may also be associated with improved nutritional
   quality of a diet . 1986 , taylor and francis group , llc
DE diet patterns; gardening; household influences; samoan children

---

UT 2100
AR Paul SO, 2009, CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST, V97, P104, DOI
   10.1016/j.chemolab.2008.07.005
TI Chemometrics in South Africa and the development of the South African
   Chemometrics Society
AU Paul SO
TC 1
SO CHEMOM INTELL LAB SYST
PY 2009
AB in the south western ( cape ) region of south africa , extensive use is made
   of chemometric techniques to characterize and quantify food , herbal , and
   agricultural products . a large proportion of the analyzes involve processes
   of wine production and storage . several groups make use of various
   analytical techniques and chemometric evaluations to support vineyard
   management , and to determine different properties of wine and the
   conditions under which to produce quality wine . for institutions located in
   the central part of south africa ( gauteng province ) , the emphasis of
   research involves mainly industrial processes , the optimization of these
   processes , and the monitoring of their effects on the environment . the
   initiative to establish the south african chemometrics society in 2006
   originated in the institute for wine biotechnology at stellenbosch
   university . at present there are enthusiastic members of the society from
   the entire country who contribute to the recognition of chemometrics in
   south africa . 2008 elsevier b.v
DE chemometrics for wine analysis; chemometrics in food science; chemometrics
   in south africa; environmental chemistry; near infrared spectroscopy; the
   south african chemometrics society
ID article; chemometrics; near infrared spectroscopy; nutritional science;
   priority journal; quality control; south africa; total quality management;
   vineyard; viniculture; wine industry

---

UT 2101
AR González-Domínguez R, 2022, FOODS, V11, DOI 10.3390/foods11233940
TI An Overview on the Application of Chemometrics Tools in Food Authenticity
   and Traceability
AU González-Domínguez R; Sayago A; Fernández-Recamales Á
TC 76
SO FOODS
PY 2022
AB the use of advanced chemometrics tools in food authenticity research is
   crucial for managing the huge amount of data that is generated by applying
   state of the art analytical methods such as chromatographic , spectroscopic
   , and non targeted fingerprinting approaches . thus , this review article
   provides description , classification , and comparison of the most important
   statistical techniques that are commonly employed in food authentication and
   traceability , including methods for exploratory data analysis ,
   discrimination , and classification , as well as for regression and
   prediction . this literature revision is not intended to be exhaustive , but
   rather to provide a general overview to non expert readers in the use of
   chemometrics in food science . overall , the available literature suggests
   that the selection of the most appropriate statistical technique is
   dependent on the characteristics of the data matrix , but combining
   complementary tools is usually needed for properly handling data complexity
   . in that way , chemometrics has become a powerful ally in facilitating the
   detection of frauds and ensuring the authenticity and traceability of foods
DE chemometrics; food authenticity; food traceability; multivariate analysis

---

UT 2102
AR Holmes G, 2002, INT J FOOD MICROBIOL, V73, P351, DOI
   10.1016/S0168-1605(01)00671-7
TI A development environment for predictive modelling in foods
AU Holmes G; Hall MA
TC 4
SO INT J FOOD MICROBIOL
PY 2002
AB waikato environment for knowledge analysis ( weka ) is a comprehensive suite
   of java class libraries that implement many state of the art machine
   learning / data mining algorithms . non programmers interact with the
   software via a user interface component called the knowledge explorer .
   applications constructed from the weka class libraries can be run on any
   computer with a web browsing capability , allowing users to apply machine
   learning techniques to their own data regardless of computer platform . this
   paper describes the user interface component of the weka system in reference
   to previous applications in the predictive modeling of foods . 2002 elsevier
   science b.v
DE classification; inductive modeling software; regression
ID algorithms; computer simulation; food microbiology; humans; models
   biological; software; user-computer interface; gallirallus australis;
   algorithm; article; computer; computer interface; computer program; food
   control; mathematical model; prediction

---

UT 2103
AR Nobari Moghaddam H, 2022, J FOOD COMPOS ANAL, V107, DOI
   10.1016/j.jfca.2021.104343
TI Multivariate analysis of food fraud: A review of NIR based instruments in
   tandem with chemometrics
AU Nobari Moghaddam H; Tamiji Z; Akbari Lakeh M; Khoshayand MR; Haji Mahmoodi M
TC 104
SO J FOOD COMPOS ANAL
PY 2022
AB the increasing concerns toward the quality and health of food products have
   necessitated accurate and precise analytical methods in order to guarantee
   the quality of food . it is required that time consuming and expensive
   traditional arrangements for food control be replaced by rapid methods to
   ensure product quality . this will increase the performance of food
   manufacturing industries and reduce the risk of error . near infrared
   spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging are economically preferred
   technologies in the food industry owing to their rapid results , simplicity
   , high throughput , low costs , and the non destructive measurements of a
   wide range of food matrices . growth of chemometrics methods combined with
   advances in near infrared spectroscopy based instrumentation have increased
   the value of this technology . the present review focused on the application
   of near infrared spectroscopy and hyperspectral imaging for the rapid
   detection of adulteration in various food matrices , including edible oils ,
   dairy products , infant formula , honey , spices , and different types of
   fruit juice
DE adulterations; chemometrics; food; hyperspectral imaging; near infrared
   spectroscopy

---

UT 2104
AR De Carvalho Rocha WF, 2020, MOL, V25, DOI 10.3390/molecules25133025
TI Comparison of Chemometric Problems in Food Analysis Using Non-Linear Methods
AU De Carvalho Rocha WF; Do Prado CB; Blonder N
TC 27
SO MOL
PY 2020
AB food analysis is a challenging analytical problem , often addressed using
   sophisticated laboratory methods that produce large data sets . linear and
   non linear multivariate methods can be used to process these types of
   datasets and to answer questions such as whether product origin is
   accurately labeled or whether a product is safe to eat . in this review , we
   present the application of non linear methods such as artificial neural
   networks , support vector machines , self organizing maps , and multi layer
   artificial neural networks in the field of chemometrics related to food
   analysis . we discuss criteria to determine when non linear methods are
   better suited for use instead of traditional methods . the principles of
   algorithms are described , and examples are presented for solving the
   problems of exploratory analysis , classification , and prediction .
DE artificial neural networks ( ann ); chemometrics; food analysis; nonlinear
   methods; self-organizing maps ( som ); support vector machine ( svm )
ID algorithms; cheminformatics; food analysis; neural networks computer;
   nonlinear dynamics; support vector machine; algorithm; comparative study;
   food analysis; nonlinear system; procedures; support vector machine

---

UT 2105
AR Diaconita V, 2025, J THEOR APPL ELECTRON COMMER RES, V20, DOI
   10.3390/jtaer20030212
TI Decoding Wine Narratives with Hierarchical Attention: Classification, Visual
   Prompts, and Emerging E-Commerce Possibilities
AU Diaconita V; Belciu A; Corbea AMI; Simonca I
TC 0
SO J THEOR APPL ELECTRON COMMER RES
PY 2025
AB wine reviews can connect words to flavors . they entwine sensory experiences
   into vivid stories . this research explores the intersection of artificial
   intelligence and oenology by using state of the art neural networks to
   decipher the nuances in wine reviews . for more accurate wine classification
   and to capture the essence of what matters most to aficionados , we use
   hierarchical attention networks enhanced with pre trained embeddings . we
   also propose an approach to create captivating marketing images using
   advanced text to image generation models , mining a large review corpus for
   the most important descriptive terms and thus linking textual tasting notes
   to automatically generated imagery . compared to more conventional models ,
   our results show that hierarchical attention processes fused with rich
   linguistic embeddings better reflect the complexities of wine language . in
   addition to improving the accuracy of wine classification , this method
   provides consumers with immersive experiences by turning sensory descriptors
   into striking visual stories . ultimately , our research helps modernize
   wine marketing and consumer engagement by merging deep learning with sensory
   analytics , proving how technology driven solutions can amplify storytelling
   and shopping experiences in the digital marketplace
DE ai-driven marketing; glove embeddings; hierarchical attention networks;
   sensory descriptors; wine classification

---

UT 2106
AR Mészáros M, 2025, ALGORITHMS, V18, DOI 10.3390/a18120733
TI Evaluating LDA and PLS-DA Algorithms for Food Authentication: A Chemometric
   Perspective
AU Mészáros M; Sedlák J; Bílek T; Vávra A
TC 3
SO ALGORITHMS
PY 2025
AB high dimensional analytical datasets , such as those generated by
   inductively coupled plasmamass spectrometry ( icp ms ) , require robust
   computational frameworks for dimensionality reduction , classification , and
   model validation . this study presents a comparative evaluation of linear
   discriminant analysis ( lda ) and partial least squares discriminant
   analysis ( pls da ) algorithms applied to multivariate chemometric data for
   food origin authentication . the research employs a workflow that integrates
   principal component analysis ( pca ) for feature extraction , followed by
   supervised classification using lda and pls da . model performance and
   stability were systematically assessed . the dataset comprised 28 apple
   samples from four geographical regions and was processed with normalization
   , scaling , and transformation prior to modeling . each model was validated
   via leave one out cross validation and evaluated using accuracy ,
   sensitivity , specificity , balanced accuracy , detection prevalence , p
   value , and cohen s kappa . the results demonstrate that , as a linear
   projection based classifier , lda provides higher robustness and
   interpretability in small and unbalanced datasets . in contrast , pls da ,
   which is optimized for covariance maximization , exhibits higher apparent
   sensitivity but lower reproducibility under similar conditions . the study
   also emphasizes the importance of dimensionality reduction strategies , such
   as pca based variable selection versus latent space extraction in pls da ,
   in controlling overfitting and improving model generalizability . the
   proposed algorithmic workflow provides a reproducible and statistically
   sound approach for evaluating discriminant methods in chemometric
   classification
DE chemometrics; cross validation; dimensionality reduction; food authenticity;
   linear discriminant analysis ( lda ); multivariate classification; partial
   least squares discriminant analysis ( pls-da ); principal component analysis
   ( pca )
ID authentication; dimensionality reduction; drug products; extraction;
   inductively coupled plasma; mass spectrometry; multivariant analysis;
   reduction; verification; chemometrices; cross validation; dimensionality
   reduction; food authenticity; linear discriminant analyze; multivariate
   classification; partial least square discriminant analyze; partial least
   squares discriminant analyzes ( pls-da ); principal component analyze;
   principal component analysis; discriminant analysis; principal component
   analysis

---

UT 2107
AR Oliveri P/1, 2016, ADV FOOD AUTHENT TEST, P702
TI Chemometrics for Food Authenticity Applications
AU Oliveri P/1; Simonetti R
TC 28
SO ADV FOOD AUTHENT TEST
PY 2016
AB verification of food authenticity is a complex issue that generally involves
   the determination of many physical or chemical properties . the best way to
   get useful information from such data is to process them by multivariate
   pattern recognition methods , which allow consideration of intercorrelations
   among variables a key issue for an accurate characterization of any system
   under study . in fact , multivariate pattern recognition approaches are
   usually required to obtain efficient models . pattern recognition methods
   can be used for different purposes but mainly for data exploration and the
   development of predictive models . the output of these models can be
   qualitative or quantitative . a proper validation of predictive models is
   always required to provide reliable predictions
DE chemometric software; class-modeling; curve resolution methods; discriminant
   classification; exploratory analysis; multivariate data analysis; pattern
   recognition; preprocessing; regression; validation

---

UT 2108
AR Morrow BF Jr, 2019, IISE ANNU CONF EXPO
TI Predictive modeling of food choices for client choice food pantries
AU Morrow BF Jr; Davis L
TC 0
SO IISE ANNU CONF EXPO
PY 2019
AB greensboro urban ministry ( gum ) distributes approximately 1.3m lbs . of
   food annually to an average of 150 households per day through its food
   pantry . traditional food pantries like gum have several disadvantages
   including overstocking of certain foods , increased food waste , and
   negative psychological effects on the clients . as a result , management
   wishes to convert to a client choice food pantry . client choice food
   pantries , like grocery stores , allow clients to choose which foods they
   will take home , reducing food waste , and providing a psychological boost
   to the clients . this study will ( 1 ) determine client food preferences , (
   2 ) identify the gap between client food preferences and food donations ,
   and ( 3 ) propose an approach to close the gap between client food
   preferences and food donations . logistic regression is used to develop a
   predictive model of client food preferences using the developed results of a
   survey . independent variables include such predictors as snap recipient and
   size of the household . dependent variables are the various foods available
   at the food pantry . results show a significant difference exists between
   client food preferences and food donations . results also indicate that
   logistic regression shows promise in the development of a predictive model
   of client food preferences . 2019 iise annual conference and expo 2019
DE client-choice; food donations; food preferences; logistic regression
ID food waste; logistic regression; nutrition; dependent variables; food
   preference; grocery stores; independent variables; predictive modeling;
   psychological effects; traditional food; predictive analytics

---

UT 2109
AR Esteki M, 2020, FOOD REV INT, V36, P384, DOI 10.1080/87559129.2019.1649691
TI Gas Chromatographic Fingerprinting Coupled to Chemometrics for Food
   Authentication
AU Esteki M; Shahsavari Z; Simal-Gandara J
TC 47
SO FOOD REV INT
PY 2020
AB fingerprinting has become a powerful device in food authentication
   activities . food products can be verified based on their chemical
   composition , geographical origin , specified botanical sources or possible
   adulterations by fingerprinting gas chromatographic chemical analysis and a
   subsequent multivariate data analysis . although fingerprinting approaches
   have already been used successfully in many research projects , feasibility
   and employment in routine daily tests and food composition monitoring are
   not still widespread . within this review , food fingerprinting studies in
   gas chromatographic methods for different food product categories were
   selected by a systematic search method . the studies were examined for
   chemometrics techniques , identification of effective variables , method
   validation and quality assurance parameters . in this way , the research
   activities could be considered as an effective starting point to establish
   fingerprinting techniques for food authentication in wide industrial scale
   in the future
DE adulteration; chemometrics; food authentication; food fingerprinting
ID authentication; chromatographic analysis; food products; industrial
   research; multivariant analysis; quality assurance; adulteration; chemical
   compositions; chemometrics; chromatographic fingerprinting; chromatographic
   methods; fingerprinting techniques; food authentications; multivariate data
   analysis; chemical analysis; chemometrics; data analysis; employment;
   feasibility study; food composition; monitoring; review; validation process;
   gas chromatography

---

UT 2110
AR Zhang G, 2026, SPECTROCHIM ACTA MOL BIOMOL SPECTROSC, V350, DOI
   10.1016/j.saa.2025.127399
TI Deep learning regression model based on data pairing and pseudo-label fusion
   for NIR predictive modeling in food and pharmaceutical quality analysis
AU Zhang G; Li H/4; Zhu Q/1; Qin Y; Zhai D; Yang Y/7; Yang Z/2; Li P/1
TC 0
SO SPECTROCHIM ACTA MOL BIOMOL SPECTROSC
PY 2026
AB near infrared ( nir ) spectroscopy combined with artificial intelligence (
   ai ) is widely used in food and pharmaceutical industries for rapid analysis
   , but its reliability is limited by small labeled datasets due to the
   difficulty of measuring sample chemical compositions . this study proposes
   deepss , a novel deep learning based chemometrics approach , to address this
   challenge . deepss employs a pyramid encoder to extract low dimensional
   latent features from nir spectra and introduces a data pairing strategy to
   augment training data by combining latent features of sample pairs and
   subtracting their labels . during testing , pseudo labels are generated by
   pairing test samples with training features , followed by a decision
   strategy for final predictions . benchmarked against four models using
   datasets from tablets , apples , and american ginseng , deepss reduced
   prediction errors by 1.51 % 14.29 % for key components . deepss demonstrates
   reliable performance on small labeled nir datasets , improving prediction
   accuracy and efficiency in food and pharmaceutical analysis
DE 1d-cnn; data pairing; latent features; near infrared technology; small size
   dataset
ID deep learning; food analysis; malus; panax; pharmaceutical preparations;
   regression analysis; spectroscopy near infrared; tablets; deep learning;
   forecasting; labeled data; learning systems; pharmacodynamics; quality
   control; reliability analysis; sampling; drug; 1d-cnn; data pairing;
   infrared technology; latent feature; model-based opc; near infrared; near
   infrared; near infrared technology; regression modeling; small size dataset;
   article; artificial intelligence; chemical composition; chemometrics;
   controlled study; deep learning; drug analysis; drug industry; drug quality;
   human; infrared radiation; near infrared spectroscopy; panax quinquefolius;
   prediction; prediction error; predictive model; regression model;
   reliability; chemistry; food analysis; malus; panax; procedures; regression
   analysis; tablet manufacture; infrared devices

---

UT 2111
AR Pengyu H, 2025, CHEM BULL, V88, P1151
TI Application of Infrared Spectroscopy Combined with Chemometrics to Food
   Detection; [红外光谱结合化学计量学在食品检测中的应用]
AU Pengyu H; Ting Z; Haoyang L
TC 1
SO CHEM BULL
PY 2025
AB infrared spectroscopy has shown great potential in the field of food
   detection due to its advantages of fast , non destructive , and no need for
   complex pretreatment . however , its application is often limited by food
   matrix effects and complex spectral analysis . this paper reviews the
   application of infrared spectroscopy combined with chemometrics in food
   detection , focusing on the key role of chemometrics in spectral data
   preprocessing , data exploratory analysis and model construction .
   furthermore , the application of the combination of the two in the field of
   food pesticide residue detection , food adulteration and illegal addition
   detection and food quality control was reviewed . at the same time , it also
   discusses the future development direction , so as to promote the
   intelligent and on site development of food testing , and provide effective
   solutions for food safety supervision . 2025 editorial office of huaxue
   tongbao
DE chemometrics; food detection; infrared spectroscopy; machine learning

---

UT 2112
AR Esteki M, 2018, FOOD CONTROL, V93, P165, DOI 10.1016/j.foodcont.2018.06.015
TI A review on the application of chromatographic methods, coupled to
   chemometrics, for food authentication
AU Esteki M; Simal-Gandara J; Shahsavari Z; Zandbaaf S; Dashtaki E; Vander
   Heyden Y
TC 179
SO FOOD CONTROL
PY 2018
AB the increase of food adulteration , inducing losing a large amount of money
   as well as of the confidence of consumers , has become an urgent issue for
   producers , researchers , governments and consumers . chromatographic
   methods , in combination with chemometrics , are usually developed and
   applied throughout the food chain to verify the nature or origin of food ,
   with both targeted ( metabolomics ) and non targeted ( profiling )
   approaches . their operation , together with their advantages and drawbacks
   , will be discussed in this review to show strategies to solve food
   authentication issues
DE chemometrics; chromatography; food authentication; gas chromatography; high
   performance liquid chromatography; metabolomics; profiling

---

UT 2113
AR de Araújo Gomes A, 2022, FOOD CHEM, V370, DOI 10.1016/j.foodchem.2021.131072
TI Variable selection in the chemometric treatment of food data: A tutorial
   review
AU de Araújo Gomes A; Azcarate SM/1; Diniz PHGD; de Sousa Fernandes DD; Veras G
TC 82
SO FOOD CHEM
PY 2022
AB food analysis covers aspects of quality and detection of possible frauds to
   ensure the integrity of the food . the arsenal of analytical instruments
   available for food analysis is broad and allows the generation of a large
   volume of information per sample . but this instrumental information may not
   yet give the desired answer . it must be processed to provide a final answer
   for decision making . the possibility of discarding non informative and / or
   redundant signals can lead to models of better accuracy , robustness , and
   chemical interpretability , in line with the principle of parsimony . thus ,
   in this tutorial review , we cover aspects of variable selection in food
   analysis , including definitions , theoretical aspects of variable selection
   , and case studies showing the advantages of variable selection based models
   concerning the use of a wide range of non informative and redundant
   instrumental information in the analysis of food matrices
DE chemometrics; feature selection; food fraud; multivariate calibration;
   pattern recognition
ID food analysis; fraud; chemical analysis; pattern recognition; quality
   control; analytical instrument; chemometric treatment; chemometrices;
   decisions makings; features selection; food analysis; food fraud; large
   volumes; multivariate calibration; variables selections; article;
   calibration; chemometrics; decision making; feature selection; food
   analysis; fraud; theoretical study; food analysis; decision making

---

UT 2114
AR Dai L, 2026, FOODS, V15, DOI 10.3390/foods15101814
TI Near-Infrared Spectroscopy in Food Analysis: Applications, Chemometric
   Strategies, and Technological Advances
AU Dai L; Luo D; Zhang J/2; Chen Y/5; Li C/4
TC 0
SO FOODS
PY 2026
AB this paper presents a comprehensive review on near infrared ( nir )
   spectroscopy applied in food analysis , systematically elaborating its core
   principles , widespread industrial applications , advanced chemometric
   strategies , and cutting edge technological progress . nir spectroscopy (
   7602500 nm ) , characterized by rapid , non destructive detection and
   minimal sample preparation , has been widely implemented in quality
   evaluation and safety monitoring of grains , meat , fruits and vegetables ,
   dairy , fermented products , tea , coffee , and other processed foods ,
   realizing quantitative analysis of nutrients , freshness assessment ,
   texture prediction , adulteration identification , origin tracing , and
   rapid preliminary screening of toxin / pesticide residues . a series of
   chemometric methods , including spectral preprocessing ( snv , msc , s g
   smoothing ) , feature extraction , and variable selection ( cars , pso cmw ,
   icpa ) , as well as linear / nonlinear modeling algorithms ( pls , svm , bp
   ann , fuzzy clustering ) significantly boost the accuracy and robustness of
   spectral analysis . meanwhile , portable nir devices and online monitoring
   systems promote on site and real time detection in food supply chains .
   despite existing challenges such as calibration transfer , matrix
   interference , and model generalization , innovations like multimodal data
   fusion , deep learning integration , and intelligent algorithm optimization
   offer effective solutions . this review not only summarizes the latest
   research advances of nir technology in the food field but also emphasizes
   its significant advantages as a rapid , non destructive complementary tool
   to traditional destructive detection methods , providing theoretical support
   and technical reference for accelerating the industrial translation and
   standardized application of nir spectroscopy , and ultimately safeguarding
   global food quality and safety
DE chemometric analysis; food quality assessment; fuzzy clustering; near
   infrared spectroscopy; nondestructive detection
ID pesticide residue; algorithm; backpropagation neural network; calibration;
   catering service; chemometric analysis; coffee; deep learning; feature
   extraction; fermented product; food analysis; food quality; fruit; fuzzy
   clustering; grain; human; infrared radiation; near infrared spectroscopy;
   nonhuman; online monitoring; pharmaceutics; prediction; processed food;
   quality control; quantitative analysis; review; supply chain; support vector
   machine; tea; vegetable

---

UT 2115
AR Hong Y, 2023, NAT COMMUN, V14, DOI 10.1038/s41467-023-38382-z
TI Data fusion and multivariate analysis for food authenticity analysis
AU Hong Y; Birse N; Quinn B; Li Y/2; Jia W/2; McCarron P; Wu D; da Silva GR;
   Vanhaecke L; van Ruth S; Elliott CT
TC 78
SO NAT COMMUN
PY 2023
AB a mid level data fusion coupled with multivariate analysis approach is
   applied to dual platform mass spectrometry data sets using rapid evaporative
   ionization mass spectrometry and inductively coupled plasma mass
   spectrometry to determine the correct classification of salmon origin and
   production methods . salmon ( n = 522 ) from five different regions and two
   production methods are used in the study . the method achieves a cross
   validation classification accuracy of 100 % and all test samples ( n = 17 )
   have their origins correctly determined , which is not possible with single
   platform methods . eighteen robust lipid markers and nine elemental markers
   are found , which provide robust evidence of the provenance of the salmon .
   thus , we demonstrate that our mid level data fusion multivariate analysis
   strategy greatly improves the ability to correctly identify the geographical
   origin and production method of salmon , and this innovative approach can be
   applied to many other food authenticity applications
ID animals; discriminant analysis; mass spectrometry; multivariate analysis;
   salmon; seafood; spectrum analysis; lipid; dataset; food; lipid; mass
   spectrometry; multivariate analysis; provenance; article; cross validation;
   data analysis; food analysis; mass spectrometry; multivariate analysis;
   salmonine; sea food; validation process; animal; discriminant analysis;
   multivariate analysis; procedures; salmonine; sea food; spectroscopy

---

UT 2116
AR Park S-K, 2025, MAR POLLUT BULL, V220, DOI 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2025.118372
TI Influence of environmental factors on the proximate components and heavy
   metal contents of raw laver (Pyropia spp.) from South Korea
AU Park S-K; Han S-J; Jo D-M; Jo J-B; Lee G; Park K-J; Kim Y-M
TC 2
SO MAR POLLUT BULL
PY 2025
AB raw laver ( pyropia spp . ) a high value global aquaculture resource faces
   quality volatility under climate change , threatening sustainable production
   . this study establishes predictive environmental controls for optimizing
   cultivation and safety . through sequential sampling ( jan mar 2024 ,
   seocheon , korea ) , we linked marine factors to compositional shifts :
   multivariate analysis ( pls vip ) confirmed crude protein declines with
   rising sea surface temperature ( vip = 2.00 , are = 0.695 , p < 0.05 ) while
   cadmium accumulation increases as salinity drops ( vip = 1.69 , are = 0.667
   , p < 0.05 ) . these quantifiable relationships enable precise harvest
   scheduling to maximize nutritional quality and minimize heavy metal risks .
   by integrating real time environmental monitoring with compositional
   analytics , this work provides a science backed framework for cultivation
   optimization , quality control , and sustainable resource management in
   global seaweed aquaculture
DE cadmium; heavy metals; protein; pyropia; salinity; seaweed; temperature
ID aquaculture; edible seaweeds; environmental monitoring; metals heavy; nori
   and laver red algae; porphyra; republic of korea; salinity; seaweed; water
   pollutants chemical; south korea; aquaculture; climate change; environmental
   management; natural resources management; oceanography; quality control;
   seaweed; arsenic; cadmium; copper; heavy metal; lead; zinc; heavy metal;
   crude proteins; environmental control; environmental factors; heavy metals
   content; multi variate analysis; pyropia; salinity; sequential sampling;
   south korea; sustainable production; biomonitoring; cultivation;
   environmental factor; heavy metal; nutritional status; protein; safety;
   salinity; sea surface temperature; seaweed culture; agarophyton
   vermiculophyllum; aquaculture; article; climate change; environmental
   factor; environmental monitoring; inductively coupled plasma mass
   spectrometry; marine environment; nonhuman; principal component analysis;
   pyropia; quality control; raw laver; salinity; sea surface temperature;
   seasonal variation; seaweed; temperature; edible seaweed; environmental
   monitoring; porphyra; south korea; water pollutant; cadmium

---

UT 2117
AR Feinberg M, 1989, ANAL CHIM ACTA, V223, P223, DOI
   10.1016/S0003-2670(00)84086-6
TI Chemometrics and food chemistry: data validation
AU Feinberg M; Bugner E
TC 4
SO ANAL CHIM ACTA
PY 1989
AB chemometrics has often been applied in food chemistry to cluster and
   classify samples or to produce models for food quality . in recent years ,
   data on food composition have become important for public health protection
   and food trades . the quality of the available chemical information on foods
   is a problem . data obtained with the newer analytical methods is scarce and
   general knowledge about food composition is poor , judged by published
   tables on food composition . moreover , agreement between results obtained
   by different analytical methods is very poor . to overcome this critical
   problem , several countries have decided to create data banks on food
   composition . the analytical results to be stored must be validated .
   chemometric modeling is useful for this purpose . interlaboratory studies
   allow standardization of methods and the preparation of food reference
   materials . the classical computation of repeatability and reproducibility
   does not extract all the available information so that a multivariate
   approach is necessary to improve the quality of a data bank on food
   composition . 1989 .

---

UT 2118
AR Rahmaoui M, 2025, J THEOR APPL TECHNOL, V103, P4129
TI PREDICTIVE MODELING AND MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF CORE FOOD SECURITY
   INDICATORS IN MOROCCO
AU Rahmaoui M; Baraka AC; Bourakadi A; Yamoul N; Khalifi H; Bour A
TC 0
SO J THEOR APPL TECHNOL
PY 2025
AB this study presents a multivariate analysis of key food security indicators
   in morocco between 2000 and 2023 . the first section introduces the
   theoretical framework of linear regression and principal component analysis
   ( pca ) . a linear regression model was then applied to examine the
   relationship between the prevalence of undernourishment and the consumer
   price index ( cpi in % ) , yielding a high coefficient of determination ( r2
   = 95 % ) . the regression model demonstrated that a one unit increase in cpi
   leads to a 0.04 % rise in undernourishment prevalence . the pca of food
   security indicators highlights two distinct dimensions that shape
   nutritional outcomes . the first principal component , accounting for most
   of the variance , shows strong positive correlations with dietary energy
   adequacy ( 0.92 ) , minimum caloric requirements ( 0.98 ) , and per capita
   gdp ( 0.96 ) , while inversely relating to food supply instability ( -0.81 )
   . this axis essentially measures a nation s economic strength and food
   system resilience . the second component exclusively tracks undernourishment
   metrics , with near perfect alignment to both the rate ( 0.98 ) and absolute
   numbers ( 1.00 ) of underfed populations . this dimension directly reflects
   the human toll of food insecurity . importantly , these components are
   statistically independent ( orthogonal ) , which reveals an important
   reality of policies : economic growth and enhancements to the food system (
   dimension 1 ) do not translate into reduced hunger ( dimension 2 ) . this
   separation reinforces the necessity to engage in bi focal approaches to
   fighting food insecurity macroeconomic policies strengthen the food system
   while humanitarian action focuses on nutrition for specific populations .
   these results show that food security exists on different levels and
   requires solutions that target the systemic economic level and humanitarian
   levels to address the multifaceted concept of hunger and malnutrition .
   ultimately , arima forecasting is utilized to forecast trends for dietary
   energy adequacy , prevalence of undernourishment ( % of population ) , and
   number of undernourished people between 2025 and 2028 . forecasts suggests a
   gradual improvement in the following areas : dietary energy adequacy rising
   from143.1 to 145.9 kcal / cap / day , prevalence of undernourishment drops
   from 5.88 % to 5.19 % , and number of undernourished people falling from
   2.09 to 1.96 million . this evidence offers substantial information for
   policy makers to improve food security policies in morocco . little lion
   scientific .
DE arima models; food security; forecasting; linear regression; morocco;
   principal component analysis ( pca ); undernourishment

---

